BAHA~: YEAR BOOK
VOLUME ONE

'ILBDU'L-BAHA
'Abdu'l-MahB, for forty years a Wsoner in Palestine, because
of raising the Standard of the "Most Great Peace."

YEAR BOOK
Prepared under the supervision of the National Spiritual Assembly
of the E a ~ b ' i s  OF THE UNITED STATES AND CANADA
with the approval of SHOCHI E F F E N ~ .
BAHA'I PUBLISHING TRUST
Wilrnette, Illinois

Copyright, 1926, by National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is
of the United States and Canada.
Reprinted 1980
Printed in the United States of America

CONTENTS
PART ONE
PAGE
"0 A ~ m y  of Life!" ~ ~ . . ~ - ~ . ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~
A Statement of the Purpose and Principles of the Baha'i Faith .....----_----
Outline of Baha'i History ....................................
The Passing of 'Abduql-BahL - ~ ~ . . ~ . ~ - - - - ~ ~ - - - . . - - .
PART TWO
Extracts from BahB'i Sacred Writings _.._._----.--.--..-....-..--..-
A Statement on Present-day Administration of the BahL'i Cause.-----------
Baha'i Calendar and Festivals --.-.-.-------...-----..-.--..--.--
The a s h r i q u - A d  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  59
Brief History of the Mashriqu'l-AdhkPr in America -._-.-----.-----------
Extracts from Mashriqu'l-AdhMr Report __-...--.--...------.--....
The Mashriqu'l-AdhMr of 'IshqPbid _..-.--------..---..---------
Impressions of Haifa -....-.......-
- - . . - - - - - - - - - - - - - . . . . .
a
n

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Old and New Paths at Green Acre -_.--..-----.--.-..-.---...-------
Unity Conference . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
PART THREE
National Spiritual Assemblies
Leading Local BahL'i Centers -__-___--.-.--.-----------.--
Baha'i Periodicals . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Bibliography __.__-.--_...-.__._---...-----------
References to the BahB'i Movement .....----------..------.---.--.-
European and American Cities Visited by 'Abdu'l-BahP --..-..-.--.--.----.-
Transliteration of Oriental Terms Frequently Used,in Baha'i Literature._----
Dr. J .  E. Esslemont _-___---.-.___...-.-.-..-.----.---
PART FOUR
The Relation of the BahL'i Cause to Modern Progressive Movements__.._-_-
The Unity of Civilization --..----.---.-----.--------.----....
Equality of Men and Women -------.-..-.+.---..--.--.-..-----.-..-----.-
Esperanto and the BahL'i Teachings ----__-__-.---.-.-..-...--...-
Unity of Religions ------.....--__._-.----..-..---.---.---
Science and Religion -.-.-.--...-----------..-------------..
Universal Education .----_.....-_._------.--------.----
Racial Amity -__._-----._..-.__---------.-----..-.
The Economic Teaching of 'Abdu'l-Bah6 __._-_--....-----.-..-.--.---
World Peace -..-_.-----_-_..._-.--------------

NOTE: T,he editors regret that a few Oriental words and
proper names appear with different spellings throughout the
Year Book due to the fact that certain articles were written
before the Oxford standard transliteration was adopted by the
BaG'is.
Also in other ways there has been no attempt to
bring up to date the compilation of material, some of which
covered a period of many years.

PAGE
........................................................
'Abdul-BahL
Fromntispiece
Original house occupied by the BLb .......................................... 16
Avenue in Haifa leading to Mt . Camel ....................................... 22
Group of BahB'ir in Baghdad, Iraq .......................................... 34
BahB'i Assmbly of Part Said, Egypt .................................... 44
..............
Delegates and friends attending Convention a t  Green Acre, Maine
...
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar
. 58
.
............................
Mr Bourgeois' house-studio-exterior and interior
.....................
Terraced descent from Tomb of the Bib and 'Abdu'l-BahB
................................................
.
BabA'is of Kunjangun. India
..........................
Fellowship house and tea house a t  Green Acre, Maine
.........................
Peace flag-raising a t  Green Acre and view of grounds
...
..
Floral emblem sent M ~ j o r  Imbrie
........................................
BahB7i students a t  Beirut University
....................................
Jenab'i-Fadil a t  Santa Paula, California
Boys' 'school a t  'IshqBbad, E u s i a  ........................................... 110
Girls' school a t  'Ishq&b&d, Rumia ............................................ 116
Annual Feast a t  West Englewood, New Jersey ................................ 120
BahB'i Feast given Miss Alexander a t  Seoul, Korea . Buddhist College students
a t  Seoul ................................................................ 122
Baha'i Messxge carried to Alaska ............................................ 124
BahA'i teachers in Australia and New Zealand ................................ 126
Mi, as Effie Baker of Melbourne, Australia ..................................... 128
Dr . J . E . Esslemont ....................................................... 132
Conference of Living Religions a t  London in 1924 ............................. 138
Dr . and Mrs . K . M . Foujdar of Bombay, India ................................ 148
Esperanto students, Tokyo, Japan ........................................... 156
Baha'i Orphanage a t  Tokyo, Japan .......................................... 168

To
SHOGHI
EFFENDI
Guardian of the BahB'i Cause
this work is dedicated
in hope that it will assist
his efforts to promote
that spiritual unity
underlying and anticipating
the "Most Great Peace"
of BAHA'U'LLAH

INTRODUCTION
D
URING February, 1924, the suggestion was made to Shoghi Effendi that the time
seemed opportune for the organization of a committee of BahB'i editors, chosen from
the Orient, Europe and America, to gather together the necessary data, facts, and
other information for an annual reference book on the Bahd'i Cause. During the eighty
years that have passed since the announcement of the Bib, the movement has penetrated
into many countries and made an indelible impression upon the thoughts of the age. If all
the activities of the Bahi'is could be gathered together, and the work of the Cause be
properly edited each year, the result, it was felt, would be to advance the unified thought
and action of the adherents of the Faith and disclose to others something of the signiiicance
of the world-wide movement called into being by the message of BahB'u'UPh.
As the result of that suggestion, the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahi'is of the
United States and Canada was requested, pending the formation of an international board
of Bahi'i editors, to assume responsibility for the work.
The editors appointed by that body present this first Bahb'i Year Book in full knowledge
that it falls all too short of the ideal. They request its readers to accept the book merely
as a preliminary forecast and simple working model of an annual BahA'i work of reference
the facilities for which can be developed as time goes on.
Particularly do they regret the unavoidable emphasis placed upon the activities of the
BaWis in the,United States and Canada in comparison with those of other countries. In
future issues of the Year Book equal emphasis can be secured through closer co-operation
with the other National Spiritual Assemblies than could be asked for or received in the
brief space of time at the disposal of the editors this year.
Sympathizers with the ideals of the movement are asked to give special attention :o
Part Four, consisting of a series of contributed articles on those universal principles pro-
mulgated so lucidly by 'Ahdu'l-BahA and already generally accepted as the indications and
proofs of a new day stirring in the heart of mankind. I t  is hoped that this section of the
Bahi'i Year Book will develop into a true review and analysis of world events from a
spiritual point of view-an interpretation surely most desirable and helpful to students and
workers in all fields.
Suggestions and assistance leading to improvements in future volumes of the Year Book
will he heartily welcomed from any source, particularly from the various National Spiritual
Assemblies throughout the Bahl'i world.
Correspondence on the subject should he ad-
dressed to Year Book Committee, care National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd'is of the
United States and Cannda, 48 West 10th Street, New York, N. Y., U .  S. A.
NELLIE S. FRFNCH,
MARIAM HANEY,
HORACE HOLLEY,
CHARLES MASON REMEY,
ALBERT WINDUST,
Editors.

PART ONE
1. "0 Army of Life !"
11. A Statement of the Purpose and Principles
of the BahP'i Faith.
111. Outline of BahL'i History.
IV. Passing of 'Abdu'l-BahL.

worship stars of faded splendor and have turned
in prayer unto darkened horizons. Both have ut-
terly neglected the broad foundation of God's sa-
cred laws, and have grown unmindful of the merits
and virtues of His religion. They have regarded
certain customs and conventions as the immutable basis of
the Divine Faith, and have firmly established themselves
therein.
They have imagined Q~hemselves as having at-
tained the glorious pinnacle of achievement and prosperity
when in reality they have touched the innermost depths
of heedleness and deprived themselves wholly of God's
bountiful gifts.
The corner-stone of the Religion of God is the acquisition
of the Divine perfections and the sharing in His manifold
bestowals. The essential purpose of Faith and Belief is to
ennoble the inner being of man with the outpourings of
grace from on high. If this be not attained, it is indeed
deprivation itself. It is the torment of infernal fire.
Wherefore it is incumbent upon all Baha'is to ponder this
very delicate and vital matter in .iheir hearts, .that, unlike
other religions, they may not content themselves with the
noise, the clamor, the hollowness of religious doctrine. Nay,
rather they should exemplify in every aspect of their lives
those attributes and virtues that are born of God and should
arise to distinguish themselves by their goodly behaviour.
They should justify their claim to be BahP'is by deeds and
not by name. He is a true BahS'i who strives by day and
by night to progress and advance along the path of human
endeavor, whose most cherished desire is so to live and act
as to enrich and illuminate the world, whose source of
inspiration is the essence of Divine virtue, whose aim in
life is so to conduct himself as to be the cause of infinite
progress. Only when he attains unto such perfect gifts
can it be said of him that he is a true Bahi'i.
For in this
holy Dispensation, the crowning glory of bygone ages and
cycles, true Faith is no mere acknowledgment of the Unity
of God, but rather the living of a life that will manifest all
the perfections and virtues implied in such belief. . . .
'ABDU'L-BAHA.

PART ONE
A STATEMENT OF THE PURPOSE AND PRINCIPLES OF THE
BAHPf FAITH
" The source of all learning is the knowledge of God, exalted be His
glory! and this cannot be attained save through the knowledge of His di-
vine Manif estation!'-BAHA'U'LLAH.
F
OR more than eighty years, the
llBh bestowed upon humanity a per-
BahB'i Cause has been steadfastly
fect model and criterion of truth,
presented to the world as the expres-
first, in His own life, then in His
sion for ithis age of the same univer-
written teachings. The life of Ba-
sal Spirit which in other ages spoke
h&'u'll&h shows f o ~ t h
the same provi-
through Zo~roaster, Muhammed, the dential destiny as the lives of those
Buddha, Moses, Christ, one Divine Manifestations who arose in ancient
utterance and continuous purpose, and hater times. It was the same vic-
giving forth one and the same tory of the Spirit beset by ignorance
message, albeit adapted to the con- and hate; the same sacrifice, the
ditions and human capacities of each same glory. But BahB'u'llPh was not
time.
In Bahi'u'llBh, according rto
slain nor prevented from giving His
His explicit text, the Message of God
full message. The written text sur-
has been revealed to mankind in its
viving Him guides the faithful fol-
fullness and universality, and the lower into all truth.
BahB'i Cause accordingly represents
The utterances of BahL'u'llfih con-
the fulfillment of that which was but veys the spirit of religion through-
plartially revealed in previous dis- out the circle of the experiences of
pensations.
life.
They enlarge the area of re-
The objects of the BahC'i Cause ligion to include reality in all its
are identical with the true objects of
forms.
From bhem we derive sci-
all revealed religion: to raise man
ence, philosophy and tea~hings on
from the earthly to the heavenly con- economic and governmental prob-
dition; to subs~titute spiritual laws lems, as well as ethics and methods
an8d kealities for natural laws and
of spiritual purification and attain-
realities operating in the darkness of
menit.
unfaith; to initiate a new age and
"BahL'u'llLh taught," writes Dr.
era of progress and atitainment in J. E. Esslemont, "that the Prophet,
the world of mind; to transform civ- or 'Manifestation of God,' is the
ilization into the glory of the Icing- Light-bringer of the spiritual world,
.dom-but
what has been partially
ais the sun i.s the lighbbringer of the
revealed is now made complete and
nahural world. Just as the marterial
what has been cherished as We se- sun shines over the earth and causes
cret experience of a few souls is now
the growth and development of mate-
established as the determining power
rial organisms, so also, through the
molding the life of the world.
Divine Manifestation, the Sun of
To achieve these objects, Bahfi'u'.
Truth shines upon the world of heart

~ A ~ i i ' f
YEAR BOOK
and soul, and educates the thoughts,
morals and charadters of men. And
just as the rays of the natural sun
have an influence which penetrates
into the darkest and shadiest corners
uf the world, givina warmth and life
even to creatures that have never
seen the sun ibself, so also, the out-
pouring of the Holy Spirik through
the Manifestation of God influences
the lives of all, and inspires receptive
minds even in places and among peo-
ples where the name of the Prophet
is quite unknown. The advent of the
Manifestation is like the coming of
the Spring. It is a day of resurrec-
tion in which the spiritually dead are
l~aised to new life, in which the Real-
ity of the Divine Religions is renewed
and re-established, in which appear
'new heavens and a new earth!
"But, in the world of nature, the
Spring brings about not only the
growth and awakening of new life,
but also the destruction and removal
of the old and effete; for the same
sun, that makes the flowers to spring
and the trees to bud, causes also the
decay and disintegration of what is
dead and ufieless; it loosens the ice
and melts the snow of winter, and
sats free the flood and the storm
that cleanse and purify the earth. So
is it also in the spiritual world. The
spiritual sunshine causes similar
commotion and change.
Thus the
Day of Resurrection is also the Day
of Judgment, in which corruptions
and imitations of the truth and out-
worn ideas and customs are discard-
ed and destroyed, in which the ice
and snow of prejudice and supersti-
Ition, which accumulated during the
season of winter, are melted and
transformed, and energies long fro-
zen and pent up are released to flood
and renovate the world!'
Religion renews the spirit of faith
and confirms the ideals of the pre-
vious Prophets and Messengers; but
Religion also progresses and in each
cycle disclosw a new aspeot of truth.
That which the Bahb'i Cause eon-
tains not revealed in any existing re-
ligion is the principle of the Oneness
of Mankind.
It is in the light of this principle
that all the BahB'i writings are to be
viewed and the purpose of thils Move-
ment considerea.  hat a spiritual
Power has been breathed into the
soul of humaniky in this age which
shall remove all causes of difference,
misunderskan'ding, discord and dis-
agreement--causes resident in cus-
toms and institutions as well as in
personal opinions and emotions-
and establish the means and meithods
as well as the desire of unity-is of
the essence of the BahB'i teaching
and faith. The rapidly alkering char-
acter of human life throughout the
world is one of the prmfs of the mis-
sion of BahPu'llBh.
The principle of oneness involves
so many rea~djustments, mental, SO-
cia1 and spiritual, that the wars and
strifes of these latter times have been
inevitable. In the life and writings
of 'Abdu'l-BahB we have the supreme
efforlt to prepare humanity for the
understanding of BahA'u'llBh and the
power manifest in Him. 'Abdu'l-
BahB gave to BahA'u'llBh's message
an initerpretation directly and imme-
diately applying to the nature of
those readjuskments. The interpre-
tation is one with the message, as
the sunlight is one with the sun.
'Abdu'l-BahB has revealed the sigi
nificansce of the Bahs'i Cause in set-
ting forth the following Principles:
1. Unfettered search afker truth
and the abandonment of all supersti-
tion and prejudice.
2. The Oneness of Mankind: all
are "leaves of one tree, flowers in one
gaxden."
3. Religion musst be a cause of
love and harmony, else it is no re-
ligion.
4. All religions are one in their
fundamental principles.

OUTLINE OF B A H ~ ' ~
HISTORY
5. Religion must conform with
science. Faith hnd reason must be
in full aocord.
6. Universal Peace: the establish-
mel~t of universal League of Nations,
of international arbitrlion and an
International Parliament.
7. The adoption of an auxiliary
internakional language which shall
be taught in all the schools of the
world.
8. Compul~sory education especial-
ly for girls, who will be the mothers
and the fir& educators of the next
generation.
9. Equ'al opporkunities of develop-
ment and cqual rights and privileges
for both sexes.
10. Work for all : no idle rich and
no idle poor. "Work in the spirit of
service is worship."
11. Abolition of exkemes of pov-
erty and wealth: care for the needy.
12. Recogniltion of the Unity of
God and obedience to His commands
as revealed through His Divine Man-
if estations.
The history of the Bah6'i Cause,
mirroring as it does the spiritual his-
tory of modern times, confirms these
principles and shows how they have
permeated the minds and hearts of
its followers throughout the world.
OUTLINE OF BAHA'f HISTORY
T
HE history of the past eighty Cause they assume perfect order and
years makes a startling record of
fullness of meaning.
momentous ements, radical changes
The day will surely come when his-
and new world issues emerging ap- torians, working in the light of the
parently without definite order and life and teachings of BahB'u'll&h,
meaning, capable of many conflict- will produce the true and complete
ing interprebations.
But if one ob- narrative of these significant years,
serves how action is expressive of
a narrative coordinating the visible
thought, lhow thought is move~d by events with their subtler causes, and
will and desire, and how will and de- bringing into unity the mental and
sire are formed by the quality of the
moral as well as social issues in-
personal or group understanding, it volved. Meanwhile, )the dimplest
will become evidenit that an era so statement recording the conditions
profoundly aative in d l  direatiom
under which the Bah2i Movement
an~d on all planes can only be ac- was horn and developed will be deep-
counted for by the presence of some
ly moving to those who would know
Influence felt in the very soul of the life as the pathway to Gold.
world.
To read this record aright, one
The history of the Bah8'i Cause is must discern the fruit latent in the
the explanation of this influence- seed and shaping in the bud. With-
its swift movement and penetration
out BaM'u'llf+h, the episode of the
from the heights to the depbhs of
Bhb hals no lasting rasult or outaome;
humanity. The BahL'i Cause is more
wibhout 'Abdu'l-BahB, the influence
than an incident in history ;-it is a
of Bah6'u'llih has no adequate in-
clear Light illuminating the spiritual
strumed; without the application of
powers to which peoples consciously
'Abdu'l-BahB's final instructions His
or unconsciously, now respond. Apart sacrifice would not serve to unify and
from the BahC'i Cause, modern world
renovate the worl~d.
movements and ltendencies seem sin-
The first significant BaM'i date is
ister anarchy; but from witthin the
May 23, 1844.

At that time evidences of the dawn
of a new Day were visible on every
hand. Witnesses to this dawn arose
in ad1 coun6ries and among all peo-
ples, testifying in the name of po-
etry, art, science, philmophy and re-
ligion to the presence of a new, trans-
forming Spirit. Materialists worked
in hope to reform the body of society,
while mystics felt the nearness of
their Lord. From farthest East to
farthest West the surfaces of habit
and tradition broke asunder, and
people tended to center around new
and higher ideals.
The supreme expremion of this
universal awakening revealed itself
in the heart of a radiant Youth of
Persia known now as the Bib (i. e.,
Gate or Door). To this Youth came
the clear realization of His mission
to proclaim the coming of a mighty
Educator, the One longed for by all
peoples, who woul~d quicken the souls,
illumine the minds, unify the con-
sciences and remold the customs of
mankind. %he life of the Bib from
May 23, 1844, to July 9, 1850, exem-
plified the pure spiritual destiny of
the Prophebs and Messengers of old.
Throuph Him a large portion of the
Muslim population of Persia became
imbued wi'th true faith, but against
Him gathered the fanatic hatred of
the Muslim clergy and the desperate
fear of the civil rulers, and by their
combined efforts and influence tihe
Bib was soon confined in prison, and
on July 9, 1850, pu~blicly martyred in
Tabriz.
Those who lament tihat this is an
age of dominant materialism may
well ponder the results of the BBb's
mission in the heroic sacrifice of His
faithful followers, many lthousands
of whom were tortured and slain with
incredible brutality.
Because these
events took place in a Muslim land,
and in a land peculiarly remote from
European and American experience,
little attention was paid to the BBbf
movement in the West.
The motive animating the faith of
the Bib's followers was that His be-
ing and mission fulfilled the spirit of
their own religious prophecy.
With BahB'u'llBh, whose advent
the BBb had foretold, the new Move-
ment left behind its peculiar Muslim
aspect and assumed a world-wide
purpose and meaning. Baha'u'llih
arose after the death of the Bib, took
upon Himself full responsibility for
leadin@ a Movement proscribed by
the government, and became the tar-
get for all the bitterness engendered
by failure to extinguish the new
light of faith. BahL'u'llih was im-
prisoned in TIhrLn with murderers
and criminals, hastinadoed, con-
demned to death, exiled to Baghdld,
then to Constantinople and Adriano-
ple, and finaly confined for life in the
desolate basracks of 'Akki, a Turk-
ish penal colony, facing Mount Car-
me1 in the Holy Land.
On April 21, 1863, in a garden
outside BaghdLd, BahB'u'llah made
known to a few followers that He
was the One proclaimed and prom-
ised by the Bib. This announcement
was made in His famous Epistles in
Adrianople previous to the journey
to 'Akki, in 1868.
By this event the Bibi Movement
was fulfilled in the Cause of B a -
u'llah, the "Glory of God," and the
streams of Christian and Jewish
prophecy united with the inner real-
ity of the Muslim Religion.
Bahi'u'llLh gave the glad tidings
to East and West that the Day of
God had dawned, 6hat the power of
the Holy Spirit, encompassed human-
ity in its time of greatest need, that
a new and universal cycle had been
established-the
age of brotherhood,
of peace, of the knowledge of God.
This message was inscribed in Tab-
lets or Epistles, written during His
forty years of exile and imprison-
ment, to kings and rulers, to repre-
sentatives of the several religions, to
His own followers in response to

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
questions they had addressed to Him,
and in a great number of books con-
taining the essence of universal re-
ligion, ecience and philosophy. In
bhe annals of the wm-ld, no spiritual
revelation has been so complete, nor
made under such conditions of per-
sonal oppression and hardship.
The effect of Bahi'u'llih Himself
upon His followers, even upon His
enemies, was unique and indescriba-
ble. About Him emanated a majesty
that glorified every suffering, an awe
that penetrated to the rudest soul, a
consecrated love that portrayed man
in his ultimate perfection. Volunta-
rily sharing these fateful ordeals
from very childhood was the son of
BahB'u'llLh, 'Abdu'l-Bahi ("Servant
of BahL") , whose confinement at
'Akki, lasting forty years, was termi-
nated at last in 1908 by the over-
throw of the old regime by the Young
Turks.
BahL'u'llLh
ascended in 1892,
leaving a Testament naming 'Abdu'l-
Bahi as the Head of His Cause, the
Interpreter of His teachings and the
Promulgator
of
His faith. The
providential spirit guiding and pro-
tecting the BahL'i Cause from its be-
ginning, centered thereafter in 'Ab-
du'l-Bahi.
'Abdu'l-Baha served as the witness
and proof of Bahi'u'llih from 1892
until November 28, 1921.
By His
singleness of devotion, purity of life,
tirelese effort, humanitarian love and
unfailing wisdom the BahL'i Mes-
sage slowly but surely spread to
all parts of the world. From 1911
to 1913, 'Abdu'l-BahL
journeyed
through Europe and America, un-
folding before numerous audiences
the spirit of the alge. His addresses
explore the fundamental problems of
religion as an attitude toward God
reflected in life. In these addresses
we find the message of BahB'u'llLh
developed in relation to the needs of
civilization, and an organic harmony
is created bebween religion, science,
economics and social order. 'Abdu'l-
BahL expanded the religion of spirit
to include all the functions of life,
destroying forever the antagonism
bekween "religious" and "secular"
matters. But this religion of spirit
bears little resemblance to institu-
tional creeds.
In these addresses also we find
vivid and inspiring pictures of the
latent possibilities of the human soul
and the new civilization which shall
arise from the influence of the Holy
Spirit. The adaptability of 'Abdu'l-
Bahi to the particular audience or
individual inquirer produced a true
unity between groups and interests
never reconciled before. No such
source of education in the whole
meaning of the word exists in the
modern world outside the writings of
'Abdu'l-BahO. In these writings the
ideals of Christian, Jew and other re-
ligionists; of philosopher and scien-
tist, of economist and reformer are
abundantly realized.
At the time of the passing of 'Ab-
du'l-BahL, BahL'is existed in many
countries of East and West. To these
He left explicit instructions explain-
ing and applyin~g the teachings of
Baha'u'llah, concerning the method
of unifying the believers and admin-
istering the work of bhe Cause. He
appointed in His Will and Testament
His eldest grandson, Shoghi Effendi,
as first Guardian of the Cause, and
left directions for the election of an
international Council (Baytu'l-'Adl, i.
e., House of Justice) based on the
universal suffrage of the believers,
which should in conjunction with him
guide the development of the Move-
ment and co-ordinate the activities of
its followens in accordance with the
principles laid dawn by BahA'u'llLh.

PASSING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
THE PASSING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
Extracts f r o m  compllatioa prepared an Ja%%a+-y, 1922
BY LADY BLOMFIELD AND SHCGHI
EFFENDI
T 1s well known that the loved ones
"When I found myself outside I
I '
of
'Abdu'l-Bahi, in every part said within myself, 'For what reason
of the world, are anxiously waiting to came I forth, not having led the
receive some dekails of the closing prayer? But it matters not; now
events of his unique and wonderful
that I have uttered the call to prayer,
life. For this reasod the present ac- the vast multitude will of themselves
count is being written.
chant the prayer."
We have now come to realize that
When the Master had passed away,
the Master knew the day and hour
his family pondered over this dream
when, his mission on earth being fin- and interpreted it thus :-
iehed, he would return to the shelter
He had called that same vast mul-
of heaven. He was, however, careful
titude-all peoples, all reliaons, al!
that his family should not have any races, all nations and all kingdoms--
premonition of the coming sorrow. to unity and peace, h universal love
It seemed as though their eyes were
and brotherhood; and having called
veiled by him, with his ever-loving them, he returned to God the beloved,
consideration for his dear ones, that
at whose command he had raised the
they should not see the significance
majestic call, had given the divine
of certain dreams and other signs of
message. This same multitude-the
the culminating event. This they now
peoples, religions, races, nations and
realize was his thought for them, in
kingdoms-would continue the work,
order that their strength might be
to which 'Abdu'l-BahL had called
preserved to face the great ordeal
them, and would of themselves press
when it should arrive, that they
forward to its accomplishment.
should not be devitalized by anguish
A few weeks after the preceding
of mind in its anticipation.
dream the Master came in from the
Out of the many signs of the ap-
solitary room in the garden, which
proach of the hour when he could
he had occupied of late, and said:-
say of his work on earth, "It is fin-
<*I dreamed a dream and behold the
ished," the following two dreams
lyessed ~
~
~
~
t
~
(BahyllLh) came
seem remarkable. Less than eight
and said unto me,
~~~t~~~ this
weeks before his passing the Master
room!, 9 ,
related this to his family:
The family, who had been wishing
"I seemed
be standing wifiin a
that he would come and sleep in the
great temple, in the inmost shrine,
house, not being happy that he should
facing the east, in the place of the
be alone at night, exclaimed, "Yes,
leader himself. I became aware that ~
~
~
t
~
,

we think your dream means
a lae&'e
n~mber of people were flock- that you should leave that room and
ing into the temple; more and yet
come into the house."
When he
more crowded in, taking their places
heard this from us, he smiled mean-
in rows behind me, until there was a
ingly as though not agreeing with our
vast multitude. As I stood I raised interpretation.
Afterwards we un-
loudly the 'Call to Prayer.' Suddenly
derstood that by the "room" was
the thought came ta me to go forth
meant the temple of his body. . . .
from the temple.
In the same week he revealed a

Tablct to America, in which is the
following prayer :-
"YB BahB'i-1-Abhi! (0 Thou the
glory of glories) I have renounced
the world and the people thereof, and
am heartbroken and sorely afflicted
because of the unfaithful.
In the
cage of this world I flutter even as
a frightened bird, and yearn every
day to take my flight unto Thy king-
dom.
" YB Bahi'i-1-Abhi!
Make me to
drink of the cup of sacrifice and set
me free. Relieve me from these woes
and trials, from these afflictions and
troubles. Thou art He that aideth,
that succoureth, that protecteth, that
stretcheth forth the hand of help.". .
After lunch he dictated some Tab-
lets, his last ones, to Rithi Effendi.
When he had rested he walked in the
garden. He seemed to be in a deep
reverie.
His good and faithful servant Is-
ma'il AqP, relates the following:-
"Some time, about twenty days be-
fore my Master passed away, I was
near the garden when I heard him
summon an old believer saying :-
" 'Come with me that we may ad-
mire together the beauty of the
garden. Behold, what the spirit of
devotion is able to achieve!
This
flourishing place was, a few years
ago, but a heap of stones, and now it
L verdant with foliage and flowers.
My desire is that after I am gone We
loved ones may all arise to serve the
divine cause and, please God, so it
shall be.
Ere long men will arise
who shall bring life to the world.' . . .
"Three days before his ascension
whilst seated in the garden, he called
me and said, 'I am sick with fatigue.
Bring two of your oranges for me
that I may eat them for your sake.'
This I did, and he having eaten them
turned to me, saying 'Have you any
'of your sweet lemons?' He bade me
fetch a few. . . Whilst I was pluck-
ing them, he came over to the tree,
saying, 'Nay, but I must gather them
with my own hands.' Having eaten
of the fruit he turned to me and
asked 'Do
you
desire anything
more?'
Then with a pathetic ges-
ture of his hands, he touchingly, em-
phatically and deliberately said:-
'Now it is finished, it is finished!'
"These significant words pene-
trated my very soul. I felt each
time he uttered them as if a knife
were struck into my heart. I under-
stood his meaning but never dreamed
his end was so nigh."
It was Ismgil AqA who had been
the Master's gardener for well nigh
thirty years and who, in the first
week after his bereavement, driven
by hopeless grief, quietly disposed of
all his belongings, made his will,
went to the Master's sister and
craved her pardon for any misdeeds
he had committed. He then delivered
the key of the garden to a trusted
servant of the household and, taking
with him means whereby to end his
life at his beloved Master's tomb,
walked up the mountain to that
sacred place, three times circled
round it and would have succeeded
in taking his life had it not been for
the opportune arrival of a friend,
who reached him in time to prevent
the accomplishment of his tragic in-
tention. . . .
During the evening 'Abdu'l-Bahti
attended the usual meeting of the
friends in his own audience chamber.
In the morning of Saturday, No-
vember 26th, he arose eaxly, came to
the tea room and had some tea. He
asked for the fur-lined coat which
had belonged to BahB'u'llPh.
He
often put on this coat when he was
cold or did not feel well, he so loved
it. He then withdrew to his room,
lay down on his bed and said, "Cover
me up. I am very cold. Last night
I did not sleep well, I felt cold. This
is serious, it is the beginning."
After more blankets had been put

on, he asked for the fur coat he had
taken off to be placed over him. ghat
day he was rather feverish. In the
evening his temperature rose still
higher, but during the night the fever
left him. After midnight he asked
for some tea.
On Sunday morning (November
27th) he said:- "I am quite well
and will get up as usual and have tea
with you in the tea room." After he
had dressed he was persuaded to re-
main on the sofa in his room.
In the afternoon he sent all the
friends to the tomb of the Bkb, where
on the occasion of the anniversary
of the declaration of the Covenant a
feast was being held, offered by a
PBrsi pilgrim who had lately arrived
from India.
At four in the afternoon being on
the sofa in his room He said :- "Ask
my sister and all the family to come
and have tea with me!'
His four sons-in-law and Rirhi Ef-
fendi came to him after returning
from the gathering on the mountain.
Thev said to Him:- "The giver of
however stayed with Him.
That
night the Master had gone to sleep
very calmly, quite free from fever.
He awoke about 1.15 a. m., got up
and walked across to a table where he
drank some water. He book off an
outer night garment, saying:-"I am
too warm." He went back to bed and
when his daughter Rirhi Khinum,
later on, approached, she found Him
lying peacefully and, as He looked
intd her face, He asked her to lift up
the net curtains, saying:-
"I have difficulty in breathing, give
me more air!'
Some rose water was
brought of which He drank, sitting
up in bed to do so, without any help.
He @sin lay down, and as some food
was offered Him, He remarked in a
clear and distinct voice :
"You wish me to take some food,
and I am going?" He gave them a
beautiful look. His face was so calm,
His expression
so serene,
they
thought Him asleep.
He had gone from the gaze of His
loved ones!
the "feast was unhappy because you
were not there!,
H~ said unto
The eyes that,had always looked
+
I
.
,
.
.
.
.

.
out with loving-kindness upon hu-
L l l ~ ' l l . -
"But I was there, though my body
was absent, my spirit was there in
your midst. I was present with the
friends at the tomb.
The friends
must not attach any importance to
the absence of my body. In spirit I
an), and shall always be, with the
friends. even thou& I be far away."
manity, whether friends or foes,
were now closed. The hands that had
ever been stretched forth to give alms
to the poor and the needy, the halt
and the maimed, the blind, the
orphan and the widow, had now
finished their labor. The feet that,
with untiring zeal, had gone upon the
~h~ kame
H~ asked after
ceaseless errands of the Lord of com-
the health of every member of the
household, of the pilgrims and of the
friends in Haifa. "Very good, very
good" He said when told €hat none
were ill. This was His very last ut-
terance concerning His friends.
At eight in the evening He retired
to bed after taking a little nourish-
ment, saying:-"I am quite well."
He told all the family to go to bed
and rest.
Two of His daughters
passion were now at rest. The lips
that had so eloquently championed
the cause of the suffering sons of
men, were now hushed in silence.
The heart that had so powerfully
throbbed with wondrous love for the
children of God was now stilled. His
glorious spirit had passed from the
life of earth, from the persecutions
of the enemies of righteousness, from
the storm and stress of well nigh

eighty years of indefatigible toil for
the good of others.
His long martryrdom was ended!
Early on Monday morning Novem-
ber 28th the news of this sudden
calamity had spread over the city,
causing an unprecedented stir and
tumult, and filling all hearts with un-
utterable grief.
The next morning, Tuesday No-
vember 29th the funeral took place;
a funeral the like of which Haifa,
nay Palestine itself, had surely never
seen; so deep was the feeling that
brought
so
many
thousands
of
mourners together, representative of
so many religions, races and tongues.
The High Commissioner of Pales-
tine, Sir Herbert Samuel, the Gover-
nor of Jerusalem, the Governor of
Phoenicia, the chief officials of the
government, the consuls of the vari-
ous countries, resident in Haifa, the
heads of the variwdh reli\gfous Lom
munities, the notables of Palestine,
Jews, Christians, Moslems, Druses,
Egyptians, Greeks, Turks, Kurds,
and a host of his American, European
and native friends, men, women and
children, both of high and low degree,
all, about ten thousand in number,
mourning the loss of their beloved
one.
This impressive, triumphal pro-
cession was headed by a guard of
honor, consisting of the City Con-
stabulary Force, followed by the Boy
Scouts of the Moslem and Christian
communities holding aloft their ban-
ners, a company of Moslem chor-
isters chanting their verses from the
Qur'Bn, the chiefs of the Muslim com-
munity headed by the Mufti, a num-
ber of
Christian
priests, Latin,
Greek and Anglican, all preceding
the sacred coffin, upraised on the
shoulders of His loved ones.
Im-
mediately behind it came the mem-
bers of His family, next to them
walked the British High Commis-
sioner, the Governor of Jerusalem,
and the Governor of Phoenicia. After
them came the consuls and the no-
tables of the land, followed by the
vast multitude of those who rever-
enced and loved Him.
On this day there was no cloud in
the sky, nor any sound in all the
town
and
surrounding
country
throulgh which they went, save only
the soft, slow, rythmic chanting of
Islam in the call to prayer, or the
convulsed sobbing moan of those
helpless ones, bewailing the loss of
their one friend, who had protected
them in all their difficulties and sor-
rows, whose generous bounty had
saved them and their little ones from
starvation through the terrible years
of the "Great Woe."
"0 God, my God!" the people
wailed with one accord, "Our father
has left us, our father has left us!"
0 the wonder of that great throng!
Peoples of every religion and race
and color, united in heart through
the manifestation of servitude in the
life-long work of 'Abdu'l-Bahb !
As they slowly wended their way
up Mount Carmel, the Vineyard of
God, the casket appeared in the dist-
ance to be borne aloft by invisible
hands, so high above the heads of
the people was it carried. After two
hours walking, they reached the gar-
den of the tomb of the Bib. Ten-
derly was the sacred coffin placed
upon a plain table covered with a
fair white linen cloth. As the vast
concourse pressed around the taber-
nacle of His body, waiting to be laid
in its resting place, within the vault,
next to that of the Bab, representa-
tives of the various denominations,
Muslims, Christians and Jews, all
hearts being ablaze with fervent love
of 'Abdu'l-BahB, some on the impulse
of the moment, others prepared,
raised their voices in euldgy and
regret, paying their last homage of
farewell to their loved one. So united

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
were they in their acclamation of
Him, as the wise educator and rec-
onciler of the human race in this
perplexed and sorrowful age, that
there seemed to be nothing left for
the Bahi'is to say.
The following are extracts from
some of the speeches delivered on
that memorable occasion.
The Muslim voicing the sentiments
of his co-religionists spoke as fol-
lows :-
"0 concourse of Arabians and Per-
sians! Whom are ye bewailing? Is
it He who but yesterday was great
in this life and is today in His death
greater still? Shed no tears for the
one that hath departed to the world
of eternity, but weep over the passing
of virtue and wisdom, of knowledge
and generosity,
Lament for your-
selves, for yours is the loss, whilst
He, your lost one, is but a revered
wayfarer, stepping from your mortal
world into the everlasting home.
Weep one hour for the sake of Him
who, for well nigh eighty years, hath
wept for you! Look to your right,
look to your left, look East and look
West and behold, what glory and
greatness have vanished!
What a
pillar of peace hath crumbled! What
eloquent lips are hushed! Alas! In
this tribulation there is no heart but
aches with anguish, no eye but is
filled with tears. Woe unto the poor,
for lo! goodness hath departed from
them, woe unto the orphans, for their
loving father is no more with them!
Could the life of Sir 'hbdu'l-Bahi-
Abbis have been redeemed by the
sacrifices of many a precious soul,
they of a certainty would gladly have
offered up their lives for His life.
But fate haLh otherwise ordained.
Every destiny is predetermined and
none can change the divine decree.
What am I to set forth the achieve-
ments of this leader of mankind?
They are too glorious to be praised,
too many to recount. Suffice it to
say, that He has left in every heart
the most profound impression, on
every tongue most wondrous praise.
And He that leaveth a memory so
lovely, so imperishable, He indeed, is
not dead.
Be solaced then, 0 ye
people of Bahi!
Endure and be
patient; for no man, be he of the East
or of the West, can ever comfort you,
nay he himself is even in greater
need of consolation."
The Christian then came forward
and thus spoke:-
"I weep for the world, in that my
Lord hath died; others there are who,
like unto me, weep the death of their
Lord. . . . 0 bitter is the anguish
caused by this heart-rending cala-
mity! It is not only our country's
loss but a world affliction. . . . He
hath lived for well-nigh eighty years
the life of the messengers and apos-
tles of God. He hath educated the
souls of men, hath been benevolent
unto them, hath led them to the way
of Truth. Thus he raised his people
to the pinnacle of glory, and great
shall be his reward from God, the re-
ward of the righteous ! Hear me 0
people! 'Abb5.s is not dead, neither
hath the light of Bahi been extin-
guished! Nay, nay! this light shall
shine with evedasting splendor. The
Lamp of BahL, 'Abbf~s, hath lived a
goodly life, hath manifested in him-
self the true life of the Spirit. And
now He is gathered to glory, a pure
angel, richly robed in benevolent
deeds, noble in His precious virtues.
Fellow Christians!
Truly ye are
bearing the mortal remains of this
ever lamented one to His last resting
place, yet know of a certainty that
your 'AbbBs will live forever in spirit
amongst you, through His deeds, His
words, His virtues and all the essence
of His life. We say farewell to the
material body of our 'Abbis and His
material body vanisheth from our
gaze, but His reality, our spiritual
'Abbis, will never leave our minds,
our
thoughts,
our
hearts,
our
tongues.

"0 great revered Sleeper! Thou
hast been good to us, Thou hast
guided us, Thou hast tauight us, Thou
hast lived amongst us greatly, with
the full meaning of greatness, Thou
hast made us proud of Thy deeds and
of Thy words. Thou hast raised the
Orient to the summit of glory, hast
shown loving kindness to the people,
trained them in righteousness, and
hast striven to the end, till Thou hast
won the crown of glory. Rest Thou
happily under the shadow of the
mercy of the Lord Thy God, and He
verily, shall well reward Thee."
Yet another Moslem, the Mufti of
Haifa, spoke as follows:-
"I do not wish to exaggerate in my
eulogy of this great One, for His
ready and helping hand in the service
of mankind and the beautiful and
wondrous story of His life, spent in
doing that which is right and good,
none can deny, save him whose heart
is blinded. . . .
"0 Thou revered voyager! Thou
hast lived greatly and hast died
greatly ! This great funeral proces-
sion is but a glorious proof of Thy
greatness in Thy life and in Thy
death. But 0 ,  Thou whom we have
lost! Thou leader of men, generous
and benevolent! To whom shall the
poor now look? Who shall care for
the hungry? and the desolate, the
widow and the orphan?
"May the Lord inspire all) Thy
household and Thy kindred with
patience in this grievous calamity,
and immerse Thee in the ocean of His
grace and mercy! He verily, is the
prayer-hearing, p r a y e r-answering
God."
The Jew when his turn came, paid
his tribute in these words :-
"Dans un siecle de positivisme ex-
agBrB et de materialisme effrBn6, il
est Btonnant et rare de trouver un
philosophe de grande envergure tel
que le reig~ettk 'Abdu'l-Bahl 'AbbiLs
parler B notre coeur, a nos sentiments
et surtout chercher B Bduquer notre
Bme en nous inculquant les principes
les plus beaux, reconnus comme Btant
la base de toute religion et de toute
morale pure. Par ses Bcrits, par sa
parole, par ses entretiens familiers
comme par ses colloques cBlbbres avec
les plus cultivks et les fervents
adeptes des theories sectaires, il a su
persuader, il a pu toujours con-
vaincre. Les exemples vivants sont
d'un autre pouvoir. Sa vie privBe
et publique Btait un exemple de dB-
vouement et d'oubli de soi pour le
bonheur des autres. . . .
"Sa philosophie est simple, direz
vous, mais elle est grande par cette
mOme simplicite, Btant conforme au
caractire humain qui perd de sa
beaut6 lorsqu'il se trouve faussk par
les pr6jug6s et les superstitions. . . .
'Abbis est mort B Caiffa, en Pales-
tine, la Terre Sacree qui a produit les
prophstes.
Devenue sterile et aban-
donnke dequis tant de siicles elle res-
sucite de nouveau et commence & rep-
rendre son rang, et sa renommBe
primitive. Nous ne sommes pas les
seuls B pleurer ce prophete, nous ne
sommes pas les seuls B le glorifier.
En Europe, en AmBrique, que dis-je,
dans tout pays habit6 par des hommes
conscients de leur mission dans ce
bas monde assoiff6 de justice sociale,
de fraternitb, on le pleurera aussi.
I1 est mort a p r h  avoir souffert du
despotisme, du fanatisme et de l'in-
tolbrance. Acre, la Bastille turque,
lui a servi de prison pendant des
dizaines d'annBes.
Bagdad la capi-
tale Abbasside a BtB aussi sa prison
et celle de son phre. La Perse, ancien
berceau de la pbilosophie douce et di-
vine, a ehassB ses enfants qui ont
concu leurs idBes chez elle. Ne voit-
on pas 1B une volontB divine et une
preference marquee pour la Terre
Promise qui Btait et sera le berceau
de toutes les idBes gBn6reuses et
nobles? Celui qui laisse apr&s lui un
pass6 aussi glorieux n'est pas mort.
Celui qui a Qcrit d'aussi beaux prin-
cjpes a agrandi sa famille parmi tous

BAHA'~
YEAR BOOK
yes lecteurs et a passe B la postkrite,
couronnB par l'immortalit6."
The nine speakers having delivered
their funeral orations, then came the
moment when the casket which held
the pearl of loving servitude passed
slowly and triumphantly into its
simple, hallowed resting place.
0 the infinite pathos! that the be-
loved feet should no longer tread
this earth ! That the presence which
inspired such devotion and rever-
ence should be withdrawn!
Of the many and diverse journals
that throughout the East and West
have given in their columns accounts
of this momentous event, the follow-
ing stand as foremost among them:
"Le Temps," the leading French
paper, in its issue of December 19,
1921, under the title 'Un Conciliateur'
(a Peace Maker), portrays graphic-
ally the life of 'Abdu'l-BahB, the fol-
lowing being some of its extracts :-
"Un prophkte vient de mourir en
Palestine.
I1 se nommait Abdoul
Baha, et il etait fils de Bahaou'llah,
qui cr6a le bahaisme, religion 'uni-
fiBe' qui n'est autre que le babisme
qu'avait observe le Comte de Gobin-
eau. Le Bab, Messie du Babisme, se
proposait modestement de rBg6nerer
la Perse, ce qui lui couta la vie, en
1850. Bahaou"l1ah et son fils Abdoul
Baha, "I'esclave de son phre", n'am-
bitionnaient pas moins que la r6-
generation du monde. Paris a connu
Abdoul Baha. Ce viellard magnifique
et debonnaire repandit parmi nous la
parole sainte il y a quelque dix ans.
I1 Btait vgtu d'une simple robe vert
olive et coffB d'un turban blanc. . . .
Sa parole Btait douce et berceuse,
comme une litanie.
On I'Bcoutait
avec un plaisir recueilli, encore qu'on
ne le comprit point; car il parlait en
persan. . . . Le bahaisme, c'est en
somme la religion de la charit6 et da
la simplicit& C'est en m&me temps,
amalgam6, le judaisme, le chris-
tianisme, le protestantisme, et la lihre
pensbe.
Abdoul Baha se reclamait
de Zoroastre, de Moise, de Mahomet
et de JBsus. Peut-&re jugerez vous
que cette unification est la B la fois
trop nombreuse et confuse.
C'est
qu'on ne comprend rien aux choses
sacrBes si l'on n'est inspire par la foi.
. . . Sous le turban blanc ses yeux
reflbtaient I'intelligence et la bont6.
I1 Btait paternal, effectueux et simple.
Son pouvoir, semblait-il, lui venait de
ce qu'il savait aimer less hommes et
savait se faire aimer d'eux. Appel6
B t6moigner de l'excellence de cette
religion naive et pure, nous purnes
honnctement confesser notre foi par
cette Pormule : "Que les religions sont
belles quand elles ne sont pas encore."
The London "Morning Post," two
days after his passing, among other
highly favourable comments, eon-
eluded its report of the movement in
the following words :
"The venerated Bahs'u'lllh died in
1892 and the mantle of his religious
insight fell on his son 'Abdu'l-BahB,
when, after forty years of prison life,
Turkish constitutional changes per-
mitted him to visit England, France
and America.
His persistent mes-
sages as to the divine origin and unity
of mankind were as impressive as
the Messenger himself. He possessed
singular courtesy. At his table Bud-
dhist and Mohammedan, Hindu and
Zoroastrian, Jew and Christian, sat
in amity. "Creatures," he said, "were
created through love; let them live
in peace and amity."
The "New York World" of Decem-
ber 1,1921 publishes the following:-
"Never before 'Abdu'l-Bah6 did
the leader of an Oriental religious
movement visit the United States. . .
As recently as June of this year a
special correspondent of "The World"
who visited this seer thus described
him :-'Having
once looked upon
'Abdu'l-BahB, his personality is in-
delibly impressed upon the mind: the
majestic venerable figure clad in the
flowing aba, his head crowned with a
turban white as his head and hair;

PASSING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
the piercing deep set eyes whose
glances shake the heart; the smile
that pours its sweetness over all.'. . .
"Even in the twilight of his life
'Abdu'l-Baha took the liveliest inter-
est in world affairs. When General
Allenby swept up the coast from
Egypt he went for counsel first to
'Abdu'l-BahA. When Zionists arrived
in their Promised Land they sought
'Abdu'l-BahC for advice. For Pales-
tine he had the brightest hopes.
'Abdu'l-Bahi believed that Bolshev-
ism would prove an admonition to the
irreligious world.
He taught the
equality of man and woman, saying:
"The world of humanity has two
wings, man and woman. If one wing
is weak, then the bird cannot fly.". . .
Nearly all representative American
newspapers devoted attention to the
passing of 'Abdu'l-Baha.
The Even-
ing Telegram, New York, December
4th, 1921, found in the international
peace movement a complete vindica-
tion for the BahC'i ideals. "In all
countries of the world today can be
found mourners of the prophet 'Ab-
du'l-Bahi. . . . Churches of all de-
nominations in New York city and
Chicago were thrown open to him
for, unlike the leaders of many cults,
he preached not the errors of present
religions but their sameness." The
New York Tribune on December 2nd
carried an editorial entitled 'Abdu'l-
Bah6. "A prophet, as his followers
believe, and the son of a prophet, was
'A~bdu'l-Bah6, who is now a t  rest
with all prophetic souls bygone. He
lived to see a remarkable expansion
of the quietist cult of which he was
thc head. . . .
Baha'u'll6h
over
sixty years ago set forth a peace
plan not dissimilar to the aspirations
of today."
The magazine Unity, published in
Chicago, included an article on the
Master in its issue of December 22nd.
" 'Abdu'l-Bah6 voiced and made elo-
quent the sacred aspiration that
yearns dumbly in the hearts of men.
He embodied in glorious, triumphant
maturity that ideal which in others
lies imprisoned 'behind the veil. Men
and women of every race, creed, claw
and color are united in devotion to
'Abdu'l-Baha
because 'Abdu'l-BahB
has been a pure, selfless mirror re-
flecting only the noblest qualities of
each."
The Sphinx, of Cairo, E,qpt, on
December 17th described 'Abdu'l-
Bahi as a great leader of men. "In
his personality and influence 'Abdu'l-
Bahi embodied all that is highest and
most striking in both the Christian
and Moslem faiths; living a life of
pure altruism, he preached and
worked for inter-racial and inter-re-
ligious unity. . . When in the pres-
ence of 'Abdu'l-BahC thoughtful in-
quirers soon realized that they were
speaking to a man of unique per-
sonality, one endowed with a love and
wisdom that had in it the divine
quality."
"The Times of India" in its issue
of January 1922, opens one of its
editorial articles as follows :-
"In more normal times than the
present the death of 'Abdu'l-Bahi,
which was somowfully referred to at
the BahL'i Conference in Bombay,
would have stirred the feelings of
many who, without belonging to the
Baha'i brotherhood, sympathize with
its tenets and admire the life-work of
those who founded it. As it is we
have learned almost by chance of this
great religious leader's death, but
that fact need not prevent our turn-
ing aside from politics and the tur-
moil of current events to consider
what this man did and what he aimed
at."
Sketching then in brief an account
of the history of the movement it
concludes as follows :-
"It is not for us now to judge
whether the purity, the mysticism
and the exalted ideas of Bahi'ism
will continue unchanged after the loss
of the great leader, or to speculate

IAR BOOK
on whether EahB'ism will some day
become a force in the world as great
or greater than Christianity or Is-
lam; but we would pay a tribute to
the memory of a man who wielded a
vast influence for good, and who, if
he was destined to see many of his
ideas seemingly shattered in the
world war, remained true to his con-
victions and to his belief in the pos-
si,bility of a reign of peace and love,
and who, far more effectively than
Tolstoi, showed the West that reli-
gion is a vital force that can never
be disregarded."
Out of the vast number of tele-
grams and cables of condolence that
have poured in, these may be men-
tioned :
His Britannic Majesty's Secretary
of State for the Colonies, Mr. Wins-
ton Churchill, telegraphing to His
Excellency the High Commissioner
for Palestine, desires him to convey
to the Bahb'i community, on behalf of
His Majesty's Government, their
sympathy and condolence on the
death of Sir 'Abdu'l-BahL Abbas K.
E. E.
On behalf of the Executive Board
of the BahL'i American Convention,
this message of condolence has been
received :
"He doeth whatsoever He willeth.
Hearts weep at most great tribula-
tion. American friends send through
Unity Board radiant love, boundless
sympathy, devotion. Standing stead-
fast, conscious of
his unceasing
presence and nearness."
Viscount Allenby, the High Com-
missioner for Egypt, has wired the
following message, through the in-
termediary of His Excellency the
High Commissioner for Palestine,
dated November 29, 1921 :
"Please convey to the relatives of
the late Sir 'Abdu'l-BahB 'Abbas
Effendi and to the BahL'1 community
my sincere sympathy in the loss of
their revered leader."
Thc loved ones in Germany assure
the Greatest Holy Leaf of their
fidelity in these terms :
"All believers deeply moved by ir-
revocable loss
of
our
Master's
precious life. We pray for heavenly
protection of Holy Cause and promise
faithfulness and obedience to Center
of Covenant."
An official messa& forwarded by
the Council of Ministers in Baghdad,
and dated December 8, 1921, reads
as follows:
"His Highness Sayed Abdurrah-
man, the Prime Minister, desires to
extend his sympathy to the family of
His Holiness 'Abdu'l-BahL in their
bereavement."
The Commander in Chief of the
Egyptian Expeditionary Force sent
through His Excellency the High
Commissioner for Palestine these
words of sympathy:
"General Congreve begs that you
will convey his deepest sympathy to
the family of the late Sir 'AbbLs al-
BahL'i."
The Theosophical Society in Lon-
don communicated as follows with
one of the followers of the Faith in
Haifa :
"For the Holy Family Theosophi-
c a l  S o c i e t y  s e n d  affectionate
thoughts."
The thousands of BahB'ls in Tehe-
ran, the capital of Persia, remember-
ing their Western brethren and sis-
ters in London and New York assure
them of their steadfast faith in these
words :
"Light of Covenant transferred
from eye to heart. Day of teaching,
of union, of self sacrifice!'
And lastly, one of the distinguished
figures in the academic life of the
University of Oxford, a renowned
p r of e s s o r and an accomplished
scholar, whose knowledge of the
Cause stands foremost among that of
his collealgues,. in the message of con-
dolence written on behalf of himself

PASSING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
and wife, expresses himself as fol-
lows :
"The passing beyond the veil into
fuller life must be specially wonder-
ful and blessed for one, who has al-
ways fixed his thoughts on high and
striven to lead an exalted life here
below."
On the seventh day after the pas-
sing of the Master, corn was distrib-
uted in His name to about a thou-
sand poor of Haifa, irrespective of
race or religion, to whom He had al-
ways been a friend and a protector.
Their 'grief at losing the "Father of
the Poor" was extremely pathetic.
In the first seven days also from fifty
to a hundred poor were daily fed at
the Master's house, in the very place
where it had been His custom to give
alms to them.
On the fortieth day there was a
memorial feast, given to over six
hundred of the people of Haifa, 'AkkB
and the surrounding parts of Pales-
tine and Syria, people of various re-
ligions, races and color. More than
a hundred of the poor were also fed
on this day.
The Governor of
Phoenicia, many other officials and
some Europeans were present.
The feast was entirely arranged
by the members of the Master's
household.
The long tables were
decorated with trailing branches of
bougainvilliers.
Its lovely purple
blooms mingled with the white nar-
cissus, and with the large dishes of
golden oranges out of the beloved
Master's garden made a picture of
loveliness in those spacious lofty
rooms, whose only other decoration
was the gorgeous yet subdued color-
ing of rare Persian rugs.
No use-
less trivial ornaments marred the ex-
treme dignity of simplicity.
The guests received, each and all,
the same welcome. There were no
''chief places." Here as always in
the Master's home, there was no re-
specting of persons.
After the luncheon the guests came
into the large central hall, this also
bare of ornament, save only for the
portrait of Him they had assembled to
honor and some antique Persian
tapestries hung upon one wall. Be-
fore this was placed a platform from
which the speeches were made to the
wrapt and silent throng, whose very
hearts were listening.
The Governor of Phoenieia, in the
course of his address, spoke the fol-
lowing:. . . . "Most of us here have,
I think, a clear picture of Sir 'Abdu'l-
BahB 'AbbBs, of His dignified figure
walking thoughtfully in our streets,
of His courteous and gracious man-
ner, of His kindness, of his love for
little children and flowers, of His
generosity and care for the poor and
suffering. So gentle was He, and so
simple that, in his presence, one al-
mod forgot that He was also a great
teacher and that His writings and
His conversations have been a solace
and an inspiration to hundreds and
thousands of people in the East and
in the West.". . .
His detailed and powerfully writ-
ten will and testament reveals the
following words of general counsel
to all his friends :-
"0 ye ~beloved of the Lord! In this
sacred Dispensation, conflict and con-
tention are in no wise permitted.
Every aggressor deprives himself of
God's grace. It is incumbent upon
everyone to show the utmost love,
rectitude of
conduct, straightfor-
wardness and sincere kindliness unto
all the peoples and kindreds of the
world,  be they friends or strangers.
So intense must be the spirit of love
and loving-kindness that the stranger
may find himself a friend, the enemy
a true brother, no difference whatso-
ever existing between them.
"For universality is of God and all
limitations are earthly."
"Thus man must strive Chat this
reality may manifest virtues and per-
fections, the light whereof may shine
upon every one. The light of the sun

'EAR BOOK
shineth upon all the world and the
merciful showers of divine provi-
dence fall upon all peoples. The vivi-
fying !breeze reviveth every living
creature, and all beings endued with
life obtain their share and portion at
His heavenly board. In like manner
the affections and loving-kindness of
the servants of the one true God
must be bountifully and universally
extended to all mankind. Regarding
this, restrictions and limitations are
in no wise permitted.
"Wherefore, 0 my loving friends!
Consort with all the peoples, kindreds
and religions of the world with the
utmost
truthfulness,
uprightness,
faithfulness,
kindliness,
good-will
and friendliness; that all the world
of being may be filled with the holy
ecstasy of the grace of Baha; that
ignorance, enmity, hate and rancor
may vanish from the world, and the
darkness of estrangement amidst the
peoples and kindreds of the world
may give way to the light of unity.
Should other peoples and nations be
unfaithful to you, show your fidelity
unto them; should they be unjust to-
wards you, show justice towards
them; should they keep aloof from
you, attract them to yourselves;
should they show their enmity, be
friendly towards them; should they
poison your lives, sweeten their souls ;
should they inflict a wound upon you,
be a salve to their sores. Such are
the attributes of the sincere! Such
are the attributes of the truthful !"
"0 ye beloved of the Lord! Strive
with all your heart to shield the
Cause of God from the onslaught of
the insincere, for such souls as these
cause the straight to become crooked
and all benevolent efforts to produce
contrary results."
He prays for the protection of His
friends :
"0 Lord, my God! Assist Thy loved
ones to be firm in Thy faith, to walk
in Thy ways, to be steadfast in Thy
Cause. Give them Thy grace to with-
stand the onslaught of self and pas-
sion, to follow the light of divine
guidance.
Thou art the powerful,
the gracious, the self-subsisting, the
bestower, the compassionate, the al-
mighty, the all-bountiful !"
For His enemies this is His prayer :
"I call upon Thee, 0 Lord, my God!
with my tongue and with all my
heart, not to requite them for their
cruelty and their wrong deeds, their
craft and their mischief, for they are
foolish and ignoble, and know not
what they do. They discern not good
from evil, neither do they distinguish
right from wrong, nor justice from
injustice. They follow their own de-
sires and walk in the footsteps of the
most imperfect and foolish amongst
them. 0 my Lord! have mercy upon
them, shield them from all afflictions
in these troubled times, and grant
that all trials and hardships may
be the lot of this, Thy servant, that
has fallen into this darksome pit.
Single me out for every woe and
make me a sacrifice for all Thy loved
ones! 0 Lord, Most High! May my
soul, my life, my being, my spirit,
my all, be offered up for them! 0
God, my God, lowly, suppliant and
fallen upon my face, I beseech Thee,
with all the ardor of my invocation,
to pardon whosoever hath hurt me,
to forgive him that hath conspired
against me and offended me, and to
wash away the misdeeds of, them
that hath wrought injustice upon
me.
Vouchsafe unto them Thy
,goodly gifts; give them joy, re-
lieve them from sorrow, grant them
peace and prosperity; give them Thy
bliss and pour upon them Thy bounty.
Thou art the powerful, the gracious,
the help in peril, the self-subsisting."
And now, what appeal more direct,
more moving, with which to close this
sad yet stirring account of his last
days, than these his most touching,
most inspiring words?

PASSING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
"Friends!
The time is coming
when I shall be no longer with you.
I have done all that could be done. I
have served the Cause of Bahi'u'llah
to the utmost of my ability. I have
labored night and day, all the years
of my life. 0 how I long to see the
loved ones taking upon themselves the
responsibilities of the Cause! Now is
the time to proclaim the Kingdom of
BahS! Now is the hour of love and
union! This is the dav of the suir-
itual harmony of the ioved one; of
God! All the resources of my physic-
al strength I have exhausted, and the
spirit of my life is the welcome tid-
ings of the unity of the people of
BahS. I am straining my ears to-
ward the East and toward the West,
toward the North and toward the
South that haply I may hear the
songs of love and fellowship chanted
in the meetings of the faithful. My
days are numbered, and, but for this,
there is no joy left unto me. 0 how
I yearn to see the friends united even
as a string of gleaming pearls, as
the brilliant Pleiades, as the rays of
the sun, as the gazelles of one
meadow!
"The mystic nightingale is war-
bling for them all; will they not lis-
ten? The bird of paradise is sing-
ing; will they not heed? The angel
of Abha is calling to them; will they
not hearken? The herald of the
Covenant is pleading; will they not
. .
obey?
"Ah me, I am waiting, waiting, to
hear the joyful tidings that the be-
lievers are the very embodiment of
sincerity and truthfulness, the incar-
nation of love and amity, the living
symbols of unity and concord. Will
they not gladden my heart? Will
they not satisfy my yearning? Will
they not manifest my wish? Will
they not fulfill my heart's desire?
Will they not give ear to my call?
"I am waiting, I am patiently
waiting."

PART TWO
I. Extracts from Bahit'i Sacred Writings.
11. A Statement on Present-day Administration
of the BahL'i Cause.
111. BahVi Calendar and Festivals.
IV. The Mashriqu'l-Adhkar.
V. Brief History of the Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr in America.
VI. Extracts from Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr Report.
VII. The Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr of 'IshqAbAd.
VIII. Impressions of Haifa.
IX. Kunjangun.
X. Old and New Paths at Green Acre.
XI. World Unity Conference.

BAHA'~
YEAR BOOK
PART TWO
EXTRACTS FROM BAHA'f SACRED WRXTINGS
w
E exhort mankind in these days
When the countenance of Justice
is soiled with dust, when the flames of
unbelief are burning high and the
robe of wisdom rent asunder, when
tranquillity and faithfulness have
ebbed away and trials and tribula-
tions waxed severe, when covenants
are broken and ties are severed, when
no man knoweth how to discern light
and darkness or to distinguish mid-
ance from error.
0 peoples of the world! Forsake
all evil, hold fast that which is good.
Strive to be shining examples unto
all mankind, and true reminders of
the virtues of God amidst men. He
that riseth to serve My Cause should
manifest My wisdom, and bend every
effort to banish ignorance from the
earth. Be united in counsel, be one
in thought. Let each morn be better
than its eve, each morrow richer than
its yesterday.
Man's merit lies in
service and virtue and not in the
pageantry of
wealth and riches.
Take heed that your words be purged
from idle fancies and worldly de-
sires and your deeds be cleansed
from craftiness and suspicion. Dis-
sipate not the wealth of your preci-
0;s
lives in the pursuit of evil and
corrupt affection, nor let your en-
deavors  be spent in promoting your
personal interest.
Bestow in your
days of plenty, be patient in the hour
of loss.
Adversity is followed by
success, and rejoicings follow woe.
Guard against idleness and sloth, and
cling unto that which profiteth man-
kind, whether young or old, whether
high or low.
Beware lest ye sow
tares of dissension among men or
plant the thorns of doubt in pure and
radiant hearts. 0 ye ,beloved of the
Lord! Commit not that which de-
fileth the limpid stream of love or
destroyeth the sweet fragrance of
friendship. By the righteousness of
the Lord! ye were created to show
love one to another and not perver-
sity and rancor. Take pride not in
love for yourselves lbut in love for
your fellow-creatures. Glory not in
love for your country but in love for
all mankind. . . . .
Let your eye be chaste, your hand
trustworthy, your tongue sincere and
your heart heedful. . . .Set your re-
liance on the army of justice, put on
the armor of wisdom, let your adorn-
ing he forgiveness and mercy. . . . .
Regard not the children of the world
and all their doings but fix your gaze
upon God and His never-ending do-
minion. . . . Endeavor to the utter-
most of your powers to establish the
word of truth with eloquence and
wisdom and to dispel1 falsehood from
the face of the earth. . . (Lawh-i-
Hikmat : BahB'u'llBh.)
The purpose of every Divine Reve-
lation is the knowledge of God and
the promotion of amity and concord
amidst men; yet behold how in these
days the law of God hath been made
the cause of perversity and hate!
Many, alas, have clung to their own
ways and remained oblivious and un-
mindful of the Way of God. . .O peo-

!EAR BOOK
ple of Bahb! Gird up the loins of en-
deavor, haply sectarian contention
and strife may be removed, nay ut-
terly banished from the face of the
earth. Arise in the love of God and
of His servants for the triumph of
this mighty Cause. Religious enmity
and hate are a world-consuming fire
the flames whereof are hard to
quench. What but the Hand of Di-
vine power can save the peoples of the
world from this devastating calam-
ity?. . . Beware lest ye be shedders
of blood; unsheath the sword of your
tongue from the scabbard of utter-
ance for therewith ye shall conquer
the citadels of men's hearts. We have
annulled the command to slay men for
unbelief; verily His mercy hath en-
compassed all created things could
ye but perceive. . . . Kindle not dis-
cord on earth, shed not the blood
of any soul, consume not the sub-
stance of your neighbor and be not
the follower of every command and
clamorous seducer. . . . As the pil-
lars of religion have tottered so hath
the power of the foolish, their temer,
ity and arrogance waxed great.
Whatsoever doth lower the exalted
station of Religion will surely in-
crease the heedlessness of the un-
godly, and this in the end can lead
but to confusion and chaos. Give
ear, 0 discerning ones; and ye that
perceive, take heed. . . . Hold fast
unto chastity, cling ye to trustworthi-
ness and faith. Show the utmost re-
gard to the true interests of hu-
manity, and seek not to gratify your
personal desire.
0 ye who follow
Him whom the world hath wronged!
Ye are the shepherds of mankind;
protect the fold from the wolves of
evil and selfish desires and adorn it
with the fear of God. . . . By the
righteousness of the Lord, the Sword
of Virtue and gooaly behaviour is
keener than blades of steel. (Epistle
to the son of Shaykh BLqir: Ba-
hi'u'llih.)
The sovereigns of the world (may
the Lord assist them with His grace)
must with one accord hold fast unto
the Most Great Peacethe greatest
of all means for the protection of
mankind. Our hope is that they will
arise to promote that which is con-
ducive to the tranquillity of all peo-
ples. It is incumbent upon them to
convene a universal assembly, to at-
tend it in person or delegate their
ministers, to enforce such measures
as will secure the establishment of
unity and concord, and to turn from
destructive armaments to the better-
ment of mankind. Should one sover-
eign rise against another, let all the
rest arise to withstand him. In this
manner will armies and instruments
of war be rendered unnecessary save
in such measure as is needful for
national security. If the sovereigns
of the world attain unto this most
great boon, the peoples of every na-
tion will joyfully and in peace engage
in the pursuit of their own affairs
and the lamentations and wailing of
the many will thereby cease. We be-
seech God that He may lgraciously
assist them to do that which is His
Will and Pleasure, and He verily is
the Lord of the throne above and of
the dust beneath, the King of this
world and the next. It is better and
preferrable that the honoured sover-
eigns attend this assembly in person
and lay down such measures as are
necessary.
Whoever among them
doth arise to fulfill this command, he
verily is the Prince of sovereigns in
the sight of God. Happy and blessed
is he. (Epistle to the son of Shaykh
Baqir : BahB'u'llBh.)
0 peoples of the world! Verily,
verily I declare: This wronged One
hath not sought neither doth He seek
leadership.
His one purpose hath
ever been to banish that which caus-
eth difference among the kindreds of
the earth and leadeth to the separa-

BAIiA'i SACRED WRITINGS
tion of peoples: that all may have
peace and freedom to pursue that
which profiteth them.
We entreat
Our friends not to defile the purity of
the Cause with the dust of falsehood,
nor abase its exalted and sanctified
station by recounting marvels and
miracles of which they may hear.
Gracious God ! This is the day when
the wise should seek the counsel of
this wronged One and supplicate the
Almighty to grant them that which
is the cause of abiding tranquillity
and glory. Yet behold! how on the
contrary they have striven with all
their power to extinguish this bril-
liant and shining light. . . . In the
face of all they have spoken We have
remained patient at all times. We
have left them in the hands of God.
(Epistle to the son of Shaykh BAqir :
BahL'u'llLh.)
The Luminary of true understand-
ing adorns this day the firmament of
knowledge; well is it with him that
beholds and turns thereunto. All that
hath been foretold is made manifest
in this day. Say, 0 friends! choose
not to stay afar from the Ocean of
God's forgiveness for lo! He is so
nigh unto you. He who was hidden
from sight is come and now appears
in all His glory.
In one hand He
bears the Water of Life, in the other
He brings the Message of true lib-
erty. Lay down and hold fast: lay
down all that pertains to this earth,
hold fast unto that which His gene-
rous Hand doth bestow. He, the like
of Whom the eyes of the world have
not seen, is now come. 0 friends!
hasten, hasten unto Him; hearken,
hearken to His call. The doings of
the divines have turned the people
away from God, and in the place of
pious devotion malice reigns. They
have strayed from God's holy way;
they have erred grievously and still
claim to lead the way. We have in-
structed those leaders, called upon
them to bear witness unto this day,
and lead the servants unto God, the
Mosk Holy.
Say, 0 ye divines!
Awake from your slumber, shake off
your heedlessness, and be straight-
way mindful. (Epistle to Mihrabin:
BahL'u'llih.)
The world is in turmoil and its
agitation waxeth day by day. Its
face is turned toward waywardness
and irreligion. So grievous shall be
its plight that to disclose it now
would not be meet and seemly. Many
a day shall pass ere it be relieved
from its sore travail.
And in the
fulness of time there shall appear all
of a sudden that which will cast ter-
ror into the very heart of mankind;
then and only then will the Divine
Standard be unfurled, then will the
Nightingale of Holiness warble its
melody upon the Tree of Life. (Pro-
phetic utterances of BahB'u'llBh re-
vealed in Shawil 1925 A. H.-(circa
1878 A. D.)
0 SON OF MAN! If thou lovest
Me turn away from thyself, and if
thou seekest My pleasure regard not
thine own; that thou mayest die in
Me and I eternally live in thee. (Hid-
den Words : BahL'u'llLh.)
0 SON OF BEING!
My love is
My stronghold; he that entereth
therein is safe and secure, and he
that turneth away shall surely stray
and perish.
(Hidden Words: Ba-
hi'u'llih.)
0 SON OF SPIRIT ! I created thee
rich, why dost thou impoverish thy-
self? Noble I made thee, wherewith
dost thou abase thyself? Out of the
essence of knowledge I manifested
thee, why seekest thou enlightenment
from any one beside Me? Of the
clay of love I moulded thee, how dost
thou busy thyself with another?
Turn thy sight unto thyself that thou

YEAR BOOK
mayest find Me abiding in thee,
mighty, powerful and self-subsisting,
(Hidden Words: BahL'u'llhh.)
0 SION OF SPIRIT! Vaunt not
thyself over the poor for I lead him
on his way and behold thee in thine
evil plight and confound thee ever-
more. (Hidden Words : BahL'u'llLh.)
0 SON OF BEING! How couldest
thou forget thine own faults and busy
thyself with the faults of others?
Who doeth this is accursed of Me.
(Hidden Words : BahB'u'llLh.)
0 SON OF MAN! Breathe not the
sins of others so long as thou art a
sinner. Shouldst thou transgress this
command accursed art thou and to
this I testify. (Hidden Words: Ba-
hL'u'llLh.)
0 SON OF MAN! My calamity is
My providence: outwardly it is fire
and vengeance but inwardly it is
light and mercy. Hasten thereunto
that thou mayest become an eternal
light and an immortal spirit. This is
Mv command unto thee. do thou ob-
s e r v e  i t .
(~idden'words: Ba-
hL'u'llLh.)
0 SON OF BEING! Busy not thy-
self with this world for with fire We
test the gold and with gold We test
Our servants. (Hidden Words: Ba-
hP'u'llhh.)
0 SON OF MAN! Bestow My
wealth upon My poor, that in heaven
thou mayest draw from spheres of
unfading splendour and treasures of
imperishable glory. But by My life!
to offer up thy soul is a more glorious
thing couldst thou but see with Mine
eye.
(Hidden Words : EahB'u'llBh.)
0 CHILDREN OF MEN! Know
ye not why We created you from one
clay? That no one should exalt him-
self over the other.
Ponder at all
times in your hearts how ye were
created.
Since We created you all
from one same substance it behooveth
you to be even as one soul, to walk
with the same feet, eat with the same
mouth and dwell in the same land;
that from your inmost being, by your
deeds and actions, the signs of one-
ness and the essence of detachment
may be made manifest. This is My
counsel unto you, O Concourse of
light! Heed ye this counsel that ye
may obtain the fruit of holiness from
the tree of wondrous glory. (Hidden
Words : BahB'u'll&h.)
0 SON OF DUST! Verily I say
unto thee, of all men the most negli-
gent is he that disputeth idly and
seeketh to advance himself over his
brother.
Say: 0 brethren! Let
deeds, not words, be your adorning.
(Hidden Words : BahB'u'llLh.)
0 SONS OF EARTH!
Know
verily the heart wherein lingers the
least trace of envy shall never attain
My everlasting Dominion, nor inhale
the fragrance of sanctity breathing
from My holy Kingdom.
(Hidden
Words : BahC'u'llhh.)
0 LIVING DUST! I am in com-
munion with thee, yet thou wouldst
have no trust in Me. The sword of
rebelliousness hath cut down the tree
of thy hope. I am at all times near
unto thee but thou art ever far from
Me. Imperishable glory have I cho-
sen for thee, yet boundless degrada-
tion hast thou chosen for thyself.
While there is yet time return and
lose not thy chance. (Hidden Words:
BahL'u'llLh.)
0 YE THAT ARE FOOLISH YET
HAVE A NAME TO BE WISE!
Wherefore wear ye the guise of the
sheperd yet inwardly are but wolves
intent upon My fold? Ye are even as

BAHA'~
SACRED WRITINGS
the star that preceedeth thc dawn
which appeareth radiant and lumi-
nous yet leadeth the wayfarers of My
city astray into paths of perdition.
(Hidden Words : Bahi'u'llih.)
0 FAIR IN SEMBLANCE YET
INWARDLY FOUL ! Ye are even as
clear yet bitter water which to out-
~
~
ward-seeming is crystal pure but
when proved by the Divine Assayer
not a drop thereof shall be accepted.
Yea, the sunbeam falleth alike upon
the mirror and the dust, yet differ
they in reflectiox even as doth th?
star from the earth, nay immeasur-
a b l e is the difference!
(Hidden
Words : Bahi'u'llih.)
0 SON OF DUST! All that is in
heaven and on earth I have destined
for thee exceot the hearts of men
which I have made the habitation of
My beauty and glory; yet thou didst
give My home and dwelling to an-
other than Me. And whensoever the
manifestation of My holiness re-
paired unto His abode a stranger
found He there, and, homeless, hast-
ened unto the sanctuary of the Be-
loved.
Notwithstanding, I revealed
not thy secret and desired not thy
shame.
(Hidden Words : Bahi'u'l-
1ih.)
O CHILDREN OF DUST!
Tell
the rich of the midnight sighing of
the poor lest negligence lead them
unto destruction and deprive them of
their share of the Tree of wealth.
Bounty and Generosity are attributes
of Mine; well is it with him that
adorneth himself with My attributes.
(Hidden Words : Bahi'u'llhh.)
0 RICH ONES OF THE EARTH!
The poor among you are My trust;
guard ye My trust, and be not wholly
occupied with your own ease. (Hid-
den Words : Bahi'u'llhh.)
O MY FRIEND! Thou art the
day-star of the heavens of My holi-
ness, let not the defilement of the
world eclipse thy splendour.
Rend
asunder the veil of negligence, that
from behind the clouds thou mayest
emerge resplendent and adorn all
beings with the robe of Life.
(Hid-
den Words : Bahi'u'llih.)
0 CHILDREN OF NEGLIGENCE!
Set not your affections on mortal
sovereignty and rejoice not therein.
Ye are even as the heedless bird that
with entire abandon warbleth upon
the bough, when of a sudden the
fowler Death doth hurl it upon the
dust. Then will no trace remain of
its melody, its form or colour.
Wherefore, take heed, 0 bond-slaves
of passion!
(Hidden Words: Ba-
hh'u'llih.)
O MY SERVANTS! Ye are the
trees of My garden; ye must bring
forth goodly and wondrous fruits,
that ye yourselves and others may
profit therefrom. Thus it is encum-
bent upon everyone to engage in
crafts and professions, for therein
lies the secret of wealth, O men of
understanding!. . . Trees that yield
no fruit have been and will ever be
fit for fire.
(Hidden Words: Ba-
hi'u'llhh.)
O MY SERVANT! The basest of
men are they that yield no fruit upon
the ea,rth. They are counted as dead ;
nay better are the dead in the sight
of God than these idle and worthless
spuls.
(Hidden Words : BahL'u'l-
lih.)
The source of all good is trust in
God, submission unto His command,
and contentment with His holy will
and pleasure. . .
True reliance consists in pursuing
one's calling and profession in this

(EAR BOOK
world, holding fast unto God and
seeking naught but His grace, inas-
much as in His hands is the destiny
of His servants. . .
True courage and power is to pro-
mote the Word of God and stand
steadfast in His love. . .
The source of true wealth is love
for Me; whoso loveth Me is the pos-
sessor of all things, and he that loveth
Me not is indeed of the poor and
needy. . .
The essence of faith is fewness of
words and abundance of deeds; he
whose words exceed his deeds, know
verily his death is better than his
life. . . .
The root of all learning is the
knowledge of God, exalted be His
glory, and this can never be attained
save through the knowledge of His
Divine Manifestation. , . .
The essence of all that We have re-
vealed for thee is Justice-to free
one's self from idle fancy and imita-
tion, to discern with the eye of one-
ness His glorious handiwork, and look
into all things with a searching eye. .
(Words of Wisdom: BahB'u'llBh.)
Consider man even as a mine that
hoIdeth stones of precious beauty.
Education alone can reveal its trea-
sures and bestow its benefit upon
mankind. . .
The Lord, exalted be His glory,
hath desired naught for Himself.
The allegiance of mankind profiteth
Him not, neither doth its disobedience
,bring Him loss. At every moment
doth the Bird of the realm of utter-
ance voice the call: "All things have
I desired for thee, and thee for thine
own self." Should the worldy-wise-
men of the day suffer the peoples of
the world to inhale the fragrance of
love and unity, then will men of un-
derstanding learn the meaning of
true liberty and attain unto perfect
tranquillity and peace. . .
Would to God that His grace and
bounty may be vouchsafed unto the
peoples of the world, that He may
guide the kindreds of the earth and
direct their steps to the path of His
good-pleasure. Behold ! Years have
passed away and neither the world
nor they that dwell therein have yet
attained to peace and quiet. At one
time they are in the throes of war,
at another they fall victims to un-
forseen afflictions. Woes and tribu-
lations have encompassed the world,
and yet no one doth perceive the
cause.
And if the true Counsellor
utter a word, they deem Him a stir-
rer of strife and reject His counsel.
Man is bewildered and knoweth not
what to think and say. . .
It is incumbent upon the leaders
of the world to observe moderation
in all things, and whatsoever ex-
ceedeth this will be rendered void of
value. Consider : liberty, civilization
and the like, though acclaimed by
men of learning, will if carried to ex-
cess result in the utmost harm. . .
(Epistle to Maqs6d : BahB'u'llBh.)
When the Day-star of Wisdom
rose above the horizon of God's holy
Dispensation it voiced this all-glori-
ous utterance: They that are posses-
sed of wealth and invested with
authority and power must show the
profoundest regard for Religion. In
truth, Religion is a radiant light and
an impregnable stronghold for the
protection and welfare of the peo-
ples of the world, for the fear of God
impelleth man to hold fast to that
which is good and shun all evil.
Should the lamp of Religion be ab-
scured, chaos and confusion will en-

BAHA'f SAGRED WRITINGS
sue, and the lights of fairness and
justice, of tranquillity and peace cease
to shine. Unto this will bear witness
every man of true understanding.
(IshrLqP : Bahi'u'llih.)
We have enjoined upon all man-
kind the Most Great Peace-the sur-
est of all means for the protection of
humanity.
The sovereigns of the
world should with one accord hold
fast thereunto, for this is the su-
preme instrument that can ensure the
security and welfare of all peoples
and nations.
They verily are the
manifestations of the po~wer of God
and the daysprings of His authority.
We beseech the Almighty that He
may graciously assist them in that
which leadeth to the well-being of
t h e i r subjects.
(Ishriqfit : Bahb-
'u'llBh.)
It is incumbent upon everyone to
observe God's holy commandments
inasmuch as they are the well-spring
of life unto the world. The firma-
ment of Divine Wisdom is illumined
with the twin orbs of Counsel and
Compassion, and the canopy of world
order is upraised upon the two pillars
of Reward and Punishment.
(Ish-
riqbt : Bahb'u'llbh.)
The triumphant hosts of this Di-
vine Dispensation are laudable deeds
and praiseworthy character, and the
leader and marshal thereof is the
fear of God.
Verily this compre-
hendeth and ruleth all things. (Ish-
rLqLt : Bahi'u'llih.)
Governments should fully acquaint
themselves with the conditions of
those they govern, and confer upon
them positions according to desert
and merit. It is enjoined upon every
ruler and sovereign to consider this
matter with the utmost care that the
traitor may not usurp the position
of the faithful nor the despoiler rule
in the place of the trustworthy.
(Ishriqit : Bahi'u'llih.)
From the beginning of time the
light of unity hath shed its Divine
radiance upon the world, and the
greatest means for the promotion of
that unity is for the peoples of the
world to understand one another's
writing and speech.
In former
Epistles We have enjoined upon the
Trustees of the House of Justice
either to choose one language from
among those now existing or to adopt
a new one, and in like manner to
select a common script, both of which
should be taught in all the schools of
the world. Thus will the earth be re-
garded as one country and one home.
The most glorious fruit of the Tree
of Knowledge is this exalted Word:
"Of one tree are all ye the fruit, and
of one bough the leaves." "Let not
man glory in that he loves his
country, let him rather glory in this
that he loves his kind." (IshrLqit:
BahB'u'llLh.)
The Pen of
Glory counselleth
every one regarding the instruction
and education of children. . . . It
is enjoined upon every father to pro-
vide for the instruction of his sons
and daughters in the art of learning
and writing and in that which hath
been prescribed in My Epistles. He
that neglecteth that whereunto he is
bidden, if he be wealthy, the Trus-
tees are to take from him that which
is required for their education, and if
he be poor, the matter shall devolve
upon the House of Justice. Verily
have We made it a shelter for the
poor and a refuge for the needy. He
that bringeth up his own son or the
son of another, it is as though he had
brought up a child of Mine own;
upon him rest My glory, My loving-
kindness and My mercy that encom-
p a s s e t h all mankind.
(IshrLqbt :
BahL'u'llhh.)

EAR BOOK
The Lord hath ordained that in
every city a House of Justice be es-
tablished, wherein shall gather coun-
sellors to the number of Bahfi (9),
and should this number be exceeded
it shall not matter. When gathered
together they should remember the
Presence of God in their midst. It be-
hooveth them to be the trusted ones of
the Merciful amongst men and the
ministers of God to all that dwell on
earth. It is incumbent upon them to
take counsel together and care for
the interests of the servants of God,
for His sake, even as they care for
their own and to choose that which
God hath chosen.
(Kitib-i-Aqdas:
BahC'u'll6,h.)
0 servants of the Merciful ! Arise
to serve the Cause of God in such wise
that cares and sorrows caused by
them that have disbelieved in the
Dayspring of the signs of God may
not afflict you. . . . Lament not in
your hours of trial, neither rejoice
therein; seek ye the middle way
which is remembrance of Me in your
afflictions and meditation on that
which may hereafter befall you. . . .
(KitAb-i-Aqdas : Bahi'u'llLh.)
True liberty lies in observing My
commandments, did ye but know.
Were men to follow that which We
have revealed unto them from the
heaven of Revelation, they would of
a certainty attain unto absolute free-
dom. Well is it with him that hath
known the purpose of God in that
which hath been revealed from the
heaven of His will that transcendeth
all mankind. Say: the liberty that
profiteth you is to be found only in
servitude to God, the True One, and
whoso hath tasted the sweetness
thereof will never barter it for all
the dominion of heaven and earth. . .
(Kitab-i-Aqdas : BiuhL'u'llCh.)
0 people of BahC ! Be as the cloud
that from you may be showered that
which will refrmh and animate the
earth. . . . Ponder God in your
heart, reflect on His Manifestations,
and be not of them that are devoid
of understanding. . . . I came not
to proclaim that which ye already
possess. Verily, verily, this day is a
new day; He that hath come is the
Wondrous, and His bidding the won-
der of all that is in heaven and on
earth. . . . We have desired naught
for ourselves, but desired for you that
which will profit you in the Kingdom
of God, the Gracious, the All-Bounti-
ful. . . . Glory is not his that pro-
claimeth his faith, but glory is his
that doeth that which the All-Merci-
ful hath revealed in His wondrous
Book. . . . 0 people of the world!
Hearken to the call of the Lord, the
King of eternity. He biddeth you to
follow righteousness, to do that which
giveth you peace and exalteth your
station.
He verily is the faithful
Counsellor. . . .
Regard not the
world and its fleeting shadows, but
fix your gaze upon God and His signs
that have encompassed all creation. .
Detachment is as the sun ; in whatso-
ever heart it doth shine it quencheth
the fire of covetousness and self. He
whose sight is illumined with the
light of understanding will assuredly
detach himself from the world and
the vanities thereof. . . . Let not
the world and its vileness grieve you.
Happy is he whom riches fill not with
vain-glory, nor poverty with sorrow.
. . . 0 concourse of rulers!
Turn
unto the poor; verily God hath cre-
ated them and you from the selfsame
substance.
Let a portion of your
wealth be shared by them. This is
that which will profit you throughout
all times and ages. Bestow a part of
that which God in His grace bath
given you; for thereby will your
wealth be increased. . . . Unfaithful
is the world. . . . Were it worthy of
regard or acceptable in the sight of
God, they that were the Manifesta-

BAHA'~ SACRED WRITINGS
tions of Justice would not have fallen
victims to the talons of tyranny.
What greater proof of the baseness
of the world and its degradation in
the eyes of the Almighty?. . . Ex-
alted is the station of man, if he be
adorned with the true attributes of
humanity; otherwise he is counted
as the basest of all creatures. . . .
0 My loved ones! Ye are the world's
spiritual physicians. It is incumbent
upon you, through the power and
might of God, to heal by the sover-
eign remedy of the Most Great Name
the soul-sickness of the kindreds of
the earth and clarify the vision of all
mankind. . . . Give ear to the voice
of the Ancient Beauty calling you
aloud from this most great Prison;
Forsake oppression and cruelty, cling
to the fear of God. Purge yourselves
from satanic deeds, be adorned with
the virtues of God. Verily, strife and
sedition beseem not the people of
God.
Eschew wicked works, and
walk in the ways of holiness, of resig-
nation and contentment. . . . Be
calm and self-dependent in your rela-
tions with your fellow-men, and deal
with them in fairness and justice.
Turn treachery to trust, slander to
brotherly counsel, oppression to just-
ice, heedlessness to the remembrance
of God. (Extracts from the Epistles
of Bahi'u'llih.)
It behoveth him that desireth to
teach the Cause of his Lord to adorn
his head with the crown of detach-
ment and the temple of his body
with the fear of God. . . . Happy
are the righteous that have attamed
unto the most great truth; happy are
the wise that have recognized the
straight path of God and turned unto
His Kingdom ; happy are the glad and
sincere, the lamps of whose hearts
bum with the knowledge of the All-
Merciful and are protected by self-
abnegation from the rough winds of
test and sorrows; happy are the
brave whose hearts the power of the
oppressor cannot daunt; happy are
the clear-sighted that have learned to
distinguish the transitory from the
eternal, that have turned their faces
to the Imperishable and are named
among the Immortals in the realm of
power and glory. . . . 0 friends!
The thief and the traitor are lying in
wait; beware lest ye be heedless, 0
bearers of God's trust ! Protect from
the robber's hand the pearls of the
love of God. . . . In this day, whoso-
ever rendeth not asunder the veil of
his idle imatginings will assuredly
fail to hear the Voice of God. Well
is it with them that with the aid of
the power of God have shattered the
idols of their fancies and, with ears
attentive to His call, have risen from
the dead. . . . Words must be fol-
lowed by deeds; words without deeds
are as bees that yield no honey, as
trees that bear no fruit. . . Regard
not the Cause of God as child's play,
neither be unmindful of His all-em-
bracing, all-discerning wisdom. Dis-
tinquish yourselves one and all
among mankind by the radiance of
your countenance, the sincerity of
your speech, the purity of your heart,
the steadfastness of your purpose,
the trustworthiness of your conduct,
the sanctity of your soul, the blame-
lessness of your life. . . (Extracts
from the Epistles of BahVu'llih.)
0 ye beloved of the Lord! In this
sacred Dispensation conflict and con-
tention are in no wise permitted.
Every aggressor deprives himself of
God's grace.
It is incumbent upon
every one to show the utmost love,
righteousness, straightforwardness
and heartfelt kindliness unto all the
peoples and kindreds of the world, be
they friends or strangers. Nay, the
spirit of affection and loving kind-
ness must so prevail that the stranger
may find himself a friend, the enemy
a true companion, and every least

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK

ADMINISTRATION OF B A H ~ ~
CAUSE
trace of difference he removed. For
universality is of God and all limita-
tions earthly.
Hence man must
strive to show forth such virtues and
perfections as may illumine all man-
kind. The light of the sun shineth
upon all the world and the merciful
showers of Providence fall upon all
peoples.
m e  life-giving breeze re-
viveth every soul and all living
creatures obtain their share and por-
tion at His heavenly board. In like
manner the affections and loving
kindness of the servants of the Ohe
True God must be bountifully and
universally extended to all mankind.
Regarding this, restrictions and limi-
tations are in no wise permitted.
Wherefore, O my loving friends!
Consort with all the peoples and kin-
dreds and religions of the world with
the utmost truthfulness, uprightness,
faithfulness, kindliness, good-will and
friendliness; that all the world of
being may be filled with the holy
ecstasy of the grace of BahB, that ig-
norance, enmity, hate and malice may
vanish from the world and the dark-
ness of estrangement amidst the peo-
ples and kindreds of the world may
be turned into the light of unity.
Should other peoples and nations be
unfaithful show fidelity unto them,
should they be unjust be just unto
them, should they avoid you attract
them, should they show enmity be
friendly, should they poison you
sweeten their lives, should they in-
flict a wound upon you be a salve to
their sores. Such are the attributes
of the sincere! Such are the attri-
butes of the truthful !. . .
The disciples of Christ fongot them-
selves and all earthly things, for-
sook all their cares and belongings,
purged themselves of self and pas-
sion, and with absolute detachment
scattered far and wide, and engaged
in calling the peoples of the world to
the light of Guidance, till at last they
made the world another world, il-
lumined the surface of the earth, and
even to their last hour proved self-
sacrificing in the pathway of that be-
loved One of God. Finally in various
lands, they suffered glorious martyr-
dom. Let them that are men of ac-
tion follow in their footsteps! (The
Will and Testament : 'Abdu'l-BahB.)
A STATEMENT ON PRESENT DAY ADMINISTRATION OF THE
BAHA'f CAUSE
BY HORACE HOLLEY
I
T has been the general character-
fact, no founder of a revealed religion
istic of religion that organization
has explicitly laid down the prin-
marks the interruption of the true ciples that should guide the admin-
spiritual influence and serves to pre- istrative machinery of the Faith He
vent the oriiginal impulse from being
has established.
carried into the world. The organ-
In the BahB'i Cause, the principles
ization has invariably become a sub- of world administration were expres-
stitute for religion rather than a
sed by Bahi'u'llih, and these prin-
method or an instrument used to give
ciples were developed in the writings
the religion effect. The separation of
of 'Abdu'l-Bahi, more especially in
peoples into different traditions un- his Will and Testament.
bridged by any peaceful or construc-
The purpose of this organization
tive intercourse has made this in- is to make possible a true and lasting
evitable.
Up to the present time in unity among people of
different

BAHK'~ YFAR BOOK
races, classes, interests, cbracters,
and inherited creeds. A close and
sympathetic study of this aspect of
the Bahl'i Cause will show that the
purpose and method of BahB'i ad-
ministration is so perfectly adapted
to the fundamental spirit of the
Revelation that it bears to it the
same relationship as body to soul.
In character, the principles of BahVi
administration represent the science
of co-operation; in application, they
provide for a new and higher type of
morality world-wide in scope. In the
clash and confusion of sectarian
prejudice, the BahP'i Movement is
impartial and sympathetic, offering a
foundation upon which reconcilation
can be firmly based. Amid the com-
plex interrelations of governments,
the Movement stands
absolutely
neutral as to political purposes and
entirely obedient to all recognized
authority. It will not be overlooked
by the student that BahL'u'llLh is the
only religious teacher making obedi-
ence to just governments and rulers
a definite spiritual command.
In this brief analysis of the several
features of the BahB'i system of ad-
ministration the purpose is rather to
place in the hands of the believers
themselves a convenient summary of
the available instructions than to
clarify this aspect of the Movement
to the non-Bahi'i.
Until one has
made contact with the spirit of the
Bahi'f teachings and desires to co-
operate whole-heartedly with their
purpose, the administrative phase of
the Movement can have little real
meaning or appeal.
At the time of the passing of
'Abdu'l-Bahi, the organization was
fully defined but not yet established
among his followers. The responsi-
bility for carrying out the instruc-
tions was placed by 'Abdu'l-Bahi
upon his grandson, Shoghi Effendi, to
whom was assigned the function of
Guardian of the Cause.
Obedience
to the authority of the Guardian was
definitely enjoined upon all BahP'is
by 'Abdu'l-BahL, but this authority
carries with it nothing of an arbi-
trary or personal character, being
limited as to purpose and method by
fthe writings of Bahl'u'llih and 'Ab-
du'l-Bah6. The Guardian unifies the
efforts to bring into complete appli-
cation those principles of world ad-
ministration already clearly defined.
To assist the Guardian in his mani-
fold responsibilities and duties and
particularly in the promotion of the
Teaching work, 'Abdu'l-Bahi pro-
vided for the appointment of a group
of co-workers to be known as "The
Hands of the Cause of God." The ap-
pointment of this body is a function
of the Guardian, and these from their
own number are to elect nine persons
who will be closely associated with
the Guardian in the discharge of his
duties.
It is the function of the
Guardian also to appoint his own
successor, this appointment to be
ratified by the nine Hands of the
Cause.
It is the genius of the BahB'i Cause
that the principle underlying the ad-
ministration of its affairs aims to im-
prove the life and up-build the char-
acter of the individual believer in his
own local community, wherever it
may be, and not to enhance the pres-
tige of those relatively few who, by
election or appointment, hold posi-
tions of higher authority.
Bahi'i
authority is measured by self-sacri-
fice and not by arbitrary power.
This fundamental aim can be seen
clearly on studying the significant
emphasis which 'Abdu'l-Bah8 placed
upon the local BahB'i communfty.
The local group, involving as it does
men and women in all the normal
activities and relations of life, is the
foundation upon which rests the en-
tire evolution of the Cause.
The
local Bahi'i community is given offi-
cial recognition only after its num-
ber of adult declared believers exceeds
nine.
Up to this point, the com-

rnunity exists as a voluntary group
of
workers and students of the
Cause.
In this connection, the word 'com-
munity' is not used in the sense of
any locality exclusively Bahi'i in
membership, nor of any manner of
living differing outwardly from the
general environment, such as has
been attempted by religionists and
also members of philosophic and
economic movements in the past. A
Bahi'i community is a unity of minds
and hearts, an association of people
entirely voluntary in character, es-
tablished upon a common experience
of devotion to the universal aims of
BahP'u'llBh and agreement as to the
methods by which these aims can be
advanced.
A Bahi'i community differs from
other voluntary gatherings in that
its foundation is so deeply laid and
broadly extended that it can include
any soul.
Whereas other associa-
tions are exclusive, in effect if not in
intention, and from method if not
from ideal, Bahi'i association is in-
clusive, shutting the gates of fellow-
ship to no sincere soul. In every
gathering there is latent or developed
some basis of selection. In religion
this basis is a creed limited by the
historical nature of its origin; in
politics this is party or platform; in
economics this is a mutual misfortune
or mutual power; in the arts and
sciences this basis consists of special
training or activity or interest.
In
all these matters, the more exclusive
the basis of selection, the stronger
the movement--a condition diamet-
rically opposed to that existing in
the Bahi'i Cause. Hence the Cause,
for all its spirit of growth and
progress, develops slowly as re-
gards the numbers of its active ad-
herents. For people are accustomed
to exclusiveness and division in all
affairs.
The important sanctions
have ever been warrants and justifi-
cations of division.
To enter the
Bahi'i Movement is to leave these
sanctions behind, an experience which
at first invariably exposes one to new
trials and sufferings, as the human
ego revolts against the supreme sanc-
tion of universal love. The scientific
must associate with the simple and
unlearned, the rich with the poor,
the white with the colored, the mystic
wibh the literalist, the Christian with
the Jew, the Muslim and the Parsee:
and on terms removing the advantage
of long established presumptions and
privileges.
But for this difficult experience
there are glorious compensations.
Let us remember that art grows
sterile as it turns away from the com-
mon humanity, that philosophy like-
wise loses its vision when developed
in solitude, and that politics and re-
ligion never succeed apart from the
general needs of mankind. Human
nature is not yet known, for we have
all lived in a state of mental, moral,
emotional or social defense, and the
psychology of defense is the psycho-
logy of inhibition. But the love of
God removes fear; the removal of
fear establishes the latent powers,
and association with others in spir-
itual love brings these powers into
vital, positive expression. A Bahi'i
community is a gathering where this
process can take place in this age,
slowly at first, as the new impetus
gathers force, more rapidly as the
members become conscious of the
powers unfolding the flower of unity
among men.
Where the community is small and
insignificant, in comparison with the
population of the city or town, the
first condition of growth is under-
standing of the Manifestation of Ba-
hi'u'll5h, and the next condition is
that of true humility. If these two
conditions exist, the weakest soul be-
comes endowed wfth effective power
in service to the Cause. The result

!EAR BOOK
of unity, in fact, is to sharc the
powers and faculties of all with each.
The responsibility for and super-
vision of local BahL'i affairs is vested
in a body known as the Spiritual As-
sembly. Tliis body (limited to nine
members) is elected annually on
April Zlst, the first day of Ridvfin
(The Festival commemoratin~g the
declaration of Bahi'u'llih) by the
adult declared believers of the com-
munity, the voting Iist being drawn
up by the out-going Spiritual As-
sembly.
Concerning the character
and functions of this body, 'Abdu'l-
BahL has written as follows:
"It is incumbent upon every one
(every believer) not to take any step
(of BahB'i activity) without consult-
ing the Spiritual Assembly, and they
must assuredly obey with heart and
soul its bidding and be submissive
unto it, that things may be properly
ordered and well arranged. Other-
wise every person will act independ-
ently and after his own judgment,
will follow his own desire, and do
harm to the Cause.
"The prime requisites for them
that take counsel together are purity
of motive, radiance of spirit, detach-
ment from all else save God, attrac-
tion to His divine fragrances, hu-
mility and lawliness amongst His
loved ones, patience and long-suffer-
ing in difficulties and servitude to His
exalted Threshold. Should they be
graciously aided to acquire these at-
tributes, victory from the unseen
Kingdom of Bahfi shall he vouchsafed
to them. In this day, assemblies of
consultation are of the ,greatest im-
portance and a vital necessity. Obe-
dience unto them is essential and ob-
ligatory. The members thereof must
take counsel together in such wise
that no occasion for ill-feeling or dis-
cord may arise. This can be attained
when every member expresses with
absolute freedom his own opinion
and setteth forth his argument.
Should anyone oppose, he must on no
account feel hurt, for not until mat-
ters are fully discussed can the right
way be revealed. The shining spark
of truth cometh forth only after the
clash of differing opinions. If after
discussion a decision be carried
unanimously, well and good; but if,
the Lord forbid, differences of opi-
nion should arise, a majority of
voices must prevail.
"The first condition is absolute
love and harmony amongst the mem-
bers of the Assembly. They must be
wholly free from estrangement and
must manifest in themselves the
Unity of God, for they are the waves
of one sea, the drops of one river, the
stars of one heaven, the rays of one
sun, the trees of one orchard, the
flowers of one garden. Should har-
mony of thought and absolute unity
be nou-existent, that gathering shall
be dispersed and that assembly be
brought to naught. The second con-
dition :-They must when cominfg to-
gether turn their faces to the King-
dom on high and ask aid from the
realm of Glory. . . . Discussions
must all be confined to spiritual mat-
ters that pertain to the training of
souls, the instruction of children,
the relief of the poor, the help of the
feeble throughout all classess in the
world, kindness to all peoples, the dif-
fusion of the fragrances of God and
the exaltation of His holy Word.
Should they endeavor to fulfill these
conditions the grace of the Holy
Spirit shall be vouchsafed unto them,
and that assembly shall become the
center of the divine blessings, the
hosts of divine confirmation shall
come to their aid, and they shall day
by day receive a new effusion of
spirit."
The letters of Shoghi Effendi quote
the fundamental instructions con-
tained in the writings of Bahh'u'llah
and 'Abdu'l-Baha on the character of
BahL'i administration, and give them
definite application. "A careful study
of BahL'u'llBh's and 'Abdu'l-BahB's

ADMINISTRATION
Tablets will reveal that other duties
(besides teaching the Cause), no less
vital to the interests of the Cause, de-
volve upon the elected representatives
of the friends in every locality.
"They must endeavor to promote
amity and concord amongst the
friends and secure an active and
whole-hearted co-operation for the
service of the Cause.
"They must do their utmost to ex-
tend at all times the helping hand to
the poor, the sick, the disabled, the
orphan, the widow, irrespective of
color, caste and creed.
"They must promote by every
means in their power the material as
well as spiritual enlightenment of
youth, the means for the education
of children, institute, whenever pos-
sible, BahL'i educational institutions,
organize and supervise their work,
and provide the best means for their
prngress and development.
"They must make an effort to
maintain official, regular and fre-
quent correspondence with the vari-
ous Baha'i centers throughout the
world, report to them their activities,
and share the glad tidings they re-
ceive with all their fellow-workers in
the Cause.
"They must bend every effort to
promote the interests of the Mash-
riqu'l-Adhkar*, and hasten the day
when the work of this glorious edifice
will have been consummated.
"They must encourage and stimu-
late by every means at their com-
mand, through subscriptions, reports
and articles, the development of the
various Bahb'i magazines.
"They must undertake the arrange-
ment of the regular meetings of the
friends, the feasts and anniversaries,
as well as the special gatherings de-
signed to serve and promote the so-
cial, intellectual and spiritual inter-
ests of their fellowmen.
'Referring ~artiou:arly to Assemblies in America.
"They must supervisc in thcsc days
when the Cause is still in its infancy
all BahL'i publications and transla-
tions, and provide in  general for a
dignified and accurate presentation
of all Bahi'i literature and its distri-
but~on to the general public.
"These rank among the most out-
standing obligations of the members
of every Spiritual Assembly.
In
whatever locality the Cause has suf-
ficiently expanded, and in order to in-
sure efficiency and avoid confusion,
each of these manifold functions will
have to be referred to a special Com-
mittee, responsible to that Assembly,
elected by it from among the friends
in that locality, and upon whose work
the Assembly will have to exercise
constant and general supervision.
"In every locality, be it city or
hamlet, where the number of adult
declared believers exceed nine, a
local Spiritual Assembly must be
forthwith established.
"As the progress and extension of
spiritual activities is dependent and
conditioned upon material means, it
is of absolute necessity that immedi-
ately after the establishment of local
as well as national Spiritual As-
semblies, a Bahi'i Fund may be es-
tablished, to be placed under the ex-
clusive control of the Spiritual As-
sembly. All donat~ons and contribu-
tions should be offered to the Treas-
urer of the Assembly, for the ex-
press purpose of promoting the in-
terests of the Cause throughout that
locality or country. It is the sacred
obligation of every conscientious and
faithful servant of Baha'u'llih, who
desires to see His Cause advance, to
contribute freely and generously for
the increase of that Fund. The mem-
bers of the Spiritual Assembly will
at their own discretion expend it to
promote the teaching campaign, to
help the needy, to establish educa-
tional Bahi'i institutions, to extend
in every way their sphere of service.

YEAR BOOK
"Nothing whatever should be given
to the public by any individual among
the friends, unless fully considered
and approved by the Spiritual As-
sembly in his locality; and if this (as
is undoubtedly the case) is a matter
that pertains to the general interests
of the .Cause in that land, then it is
incumbent upon the Spiritual As-
sembly to submit it to the considera-
tion and approval of the national
body representing all the various
local assemblies.. Not only with re-
gard to publication, but all matters
without any exception whatsoever,
regarding the interests of the Cause
in that locality, individually or col-
lectively, should be referred exclusi-
vely to the Spiritual Assembly in that
locality, which shall decide upon it,
unless it be a matter of national in-
terest, in which case it shall be refer-
red to the national (Baha'i) body.
With this national body also will rest
the decision whether a given question
is of local or national interest. (By
national affairs is not meant matters
that are political in their character,
for the friends of God the world over
are strictlyl forbidden to meddle with
political affairs in any way whatever,
but rather things that affect the
spiritual activities of the body of the
friends in that land.)
"Full harmony, however, as well
as co-operation among the various
local assemblies and the members
themselves, and particularly betweer.
each assembly and the National body
is of the utmost importance, for upon
it depends the unity of the Cause of
God, the solidarity of the friends, the
full, speedy and efficient working of
the spiritual activities of His loved
ones.
"The various Assemblies, local and
national, constitute today the bedrock
upon the strength of which the Uni-
versal House is in future to be firmly
established and raised.
Not unltil
these function vigorously and har-
moniously can the hope for the ter-
mination of this period of transition
be realized. . . . Bear in mind that
the keynote of the Cause of God is not
dictatorial authority, but humble fel-
lowship; not arbitrary power, but the
spirit of frank and loving consulta-
tion. Nothing short of the spirit of
a true Baha'i can hope to reconcile
the principles of mercy and justice,
of freedom and submission, of the
sanctity of the right of the individual
and of self-surrender, of vitggilance,
discretion and prudence on the one
hand, and fellowship, candor, and
courage on the other."
Experience in the life of a Bahb'i
community and participation in the
details of its several activities im-
presses one with the fact that Bahs'i
unity has in it new elements which
work powerfully to expand one's area
of sympathy, deepen one's insight, de-
velop one's character and bring order
and stability into all of one's affairs.
There can be no higher privilege than
the experience of attempting to serve
faithfully upon a Spiritual Assembly,
conscious as its members are of the
unique standard upheld by 'Abdu'l-
Bahb and bringing as it does the op-
portunity of dealing with a large
range and diversity of human prob-
lems from an impersonal point of
view. It is inevitable that the nine
elected members shall exemplify di-
verse interests and types of char-
acter, with the result that unity of
heart and conscience with the other
eight members is a direct training
to enter into spiritual unity with the
langer body of mankind.
No such
schools of discipline and inspiration
exist on earth today, for one must
bear in mind that a BahB'i com-
munity can never be an exclusive
group nor a closed circle of interests
but, on the contrary, its fundamental
purpose is to unify and co-operate
with every possible element in the
surrounding population.

ADMINISTR~TION OF BAHA'I CAUSE
The local Spiritual Asscmbly after
election organizes by electing from
its own number a chairman, corres-
ponding secretary, recording secre-
tary and treasurer. It should appoint
from its own members or from the
local Baha'i community working com-
mittees responsible for the various
permanent activities of the Cause.
Since a Spiritual Assembly is estab-
lished upon a new and higher ideal,
the character, knowledge and purity
of its members is essential to success.
Wherever personal ambition, narrow-
ness or impurity enters a Spiritual
Assembly, the results are invariably
to check the growtb of the Cause and,
if these conditions are prolonged, to
destroy the foundation already laid.
The careful student of the teachings
will accept this result as one more
vindication of the all-surrounding
spirit protecting this Faith.
The
elimination of an unworthy group
from the Bahi'i Cause would be a
bitter disappointment but not an
evidence that the Cause had failed.
On the contrary, the Cause could
only be declared a failure if personal
ambition, pride, narrowness and im-
purity should so prevail as to build a
world-wide organization able to per-
vert the original purpose.
The local Spiritual Assemblies of a
country are linked together and co-
ordinated through another elected
body of nine members, the National
Spiritual Assembly. This body comes
into being by means of an annual
election held by elected delegates rep-
resenting the local BahP'i communi-
ties. The delegates are elected by all
the adult declared believers of a com-
munity in which a Spiritual Assembly
exists. The National Convention in
which the delegates are gathered to-
gether is composed of an elective body
based upon the principle of propor-
tional representation.
The total
number of delegates is fixed by
Shoghi Effendi for each country, and
this number is fulfilled by assigning
to each local community the number
of delegates called for by its relative
numerical strength. These National
Conventions are preferably held dur-
ing the period of Ridvin, the twelve
days beginning April 21st which com-
memorate the Declaration made by
BahP'u'llPh in the Garden of Ridvin
near Baghdad.
The recognition of
delegates is vested in the out-going
National Spiritual Assembly.
A National Convention is an occa-
sion for deepening one's understand-
ing of Baha'i activities and of shar-
ing reports of national and local ac-
tivities for the period of the elapsed
year. It has been the custom to hold
a public Bahi'i Congress in connec-
tion with the Convention. The func-
tion of a Baha'i delegate is not limited
to attendance at the National Con-
vention and participation in the elec-
tion of the new National Spiritual
Assembly. While gathered together,
the delegates are a consultative and
advisory body whose recommenda-
tions are to be carefully considered
by the members of
the elected
national assembly. Even after the
Convention, this consultative func-
tion continues throughout the year,
and by the close and intimate asso-
ciation of the deliberations of the
National Spiritual Assembly with the
delegates, the national body is en-
abled to be more representative of
the entire Bahi'i community of the
land. Delegates unable to attend the
Convention in person are permitted
to vote for Che new National Spir-
itual Assembly by mail.
The relation of the National Spir-
itual Assembly to the local Spiritual
Assemblies and to the body of the be-
lievers in the country is thus defined
in the letters of the Guardian of the
Cause :-
"Regarding the establishment of
National Assemblies, it is of vital im-
portance that in every country, where

ADMINISTRATION OF BAIIb'f CAUSE
the conditions are favorable and thc
number of the friends has grown and
reached a considerable size-that a
National Spiritual Assembly be im-
mediately established, representative
of
the friends throughout
that
country.
"Its immediate purpose is to stimu-
late, unify and co-ordinate, by fre-
quent personal consultations, the
manifold activities of the friends as
well as the local Assemblies; and by
keeping in close and constant touch
with the Holy Land, initiate meas-
ures, and direct in general the af-
fairs of the Cause in that country.
"It serves also another purpose, no
less essential than the first, as in the
course of time it shall evolve into the
National House of Justice (referred
to in 'Abdu'l-BahL's Will as the
"secondary House of Justice") which
according to the explicit text of the
Testament will have, in conjunction
with the other National Assemblies
throughout the BahP'i world, to elect
directly the members of the Inter-
nation1 House of Justice, that Sup-
reme Council that will guide, or-
ganize and unify the affairs of the
Movement throughout the world.
"This National Spiritual Assembly
which, pending the establishment of
the Universal House of Justice, will
have to be re-elected once a year, ob-
viously assumes grave responsibili-
ties for it has to exercise full author-
ity over all the local Assemblies in its
province, and will have to direct the
activities of the friends, guard vigi-
lantly the Cause of God, and control
and supervise the affairs of the Move-
ment in general.
"Vital issues, affecting the inter-
ests of the Cause in that country,
such as the matter of translation and
publication, the Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr,
the teaching work, and other similar
matters that stand distinct from
strictly local affairs, must be under
the full jurisdiction of the National
Assembly.
"It will have to refer each of these
questions, even as the local Assemb-
lies, to a special Committee, to be
elected by the members of the Na-
tional
Spiritual
Assembly
from
among all the friends in that country,
which will bear to it the same rela-
tions as the local committees bear to
their respective local Assemblies.
"With it, too, rests the decision
whether a certain point at issue is
strictly local in its nature, and should
be reserved for the consideration and
decision of the local Assembly, or
whether it should fall under its own
province and be a matter which ought
to receive its special attention.
"It is the bounden duty, in the in-
terest of the Cause we all love and
serve, of the members of the incom-
ing National Assembly, once elected
by the delegates at Convention time,
to seek and have the utmost regard,
individually as well as collectively,
for the advice, the considered opinion
and the true sentiments of the as-
sembled delegates. Banishing every
vestige of secrecy, of undue reticence,
of dictatorial aloofness from their
midst, they should radiantly and
abundantly unfold to the eyes of the
delegates by whom they were elected,
their plans, their hopes and their
cares.
They should familiarize the
delegates with the various matters
that will have to be considered in the
current year, and calmly and con-
scientiously study and weigh the
opinions and judgments of the dele-
gates.
The newly elected National
Assembly, during the few days when
the Convention is in session, and
after the dispersion of the delegates,
should seek ways and means to culti-
vat2 understanding, facilitate and
maintain the exchange of views,
deepen confidence, and vindicate by
every tangible evidence their one de-

B A ~ l i ' f  YEAR BOOK
sire to serve and advance the corn- up thc voting list to be used a t  the
mon weal.
annual local Bahl'i elections, the res-
"The National Spiritual Assembly,
ponsibility for this is placed upon
however, in view of the unavoidable each local Spiritual Assembly, and as
limitations imposed upon the con- a guidance in the matter the Guar-
vening of frequent and long-standing
dian has written the following:
sessions of the Convention, will have
"To state very briefly and as ade-
to retain in its hands the final deei- quately as present circumstances per-
sion on all matters that affect the in- mit, the principal factors that must
terests of the Cause-such as the be taken into consideration before de-
right to decide whether any local As- ciding whether a person may be re-
sembly is functioning in accordance
garded a true believer or not. Pull
with the principles laid down for the recognition of the station of the Fore-
conduct and the advancement of the
runner, the Author and the True
Cause.
Exemplar of the BahQ'i Cause, as set
"The seating of delegates to the forth in 'Abdu'l-BahB's Testament;
Convention, i. e., the right to decide
unreserved acceptance of and sub-
upon the validity of the credentials mission to whatsoever has been re-
of the delegates a t  a given Conven-
vealed by their Pen; loyal and stead-
tion, is vested in the outgoing Na- fast adherence to every clause of our
tional Assembly, and the right to de-
Beloved's sacred Will; and close as-
cide who has the voting privilege is sociation with the spirit as well as
also ultimately placed in the hands of
the form of the present day BahB'i
the National Spiritual Assembly,
administration-these, I conceive, to
either when a local Spiritual Assemb-
be the fundamental and primary con-
ly is for the first time being formed
siderations that must be fairly, dis-
in a given locality, or when differ- creetly and thoughtfully ascertained
ences arise between a new applicant
before reaching such a vital decision."
and an already established local As-
'Abdu'l-Bahi's
instructions pro-
sembly.
vide for the further development of
"Were the National Spiritual As- Bahl'i organization through an Inter-
sembly to decide, after mature deli-
national Spiritual Assembly to be
beration, to omit the holding of the elected by the members of the Na-
BahQ'i Convention and Congress in a
tional Spiritual Assemblies. This in-
given year, then they could, only in ternational body has not yet come
such a case, devise ways and means
into existence, hut iCs special char-
to insure that the annual election of
acter has been clearly defined :
the National Spiritual Assembly
"And now, concerning the As-
should be held by mail, provided it
sembly (Baytu'l-'Adl)
which God
can be conducted with sufficient thor- hath ordained as the source of all
oughness, efficiency and dispatch.
good and freed from all error, it must
It would also appear to me unobjec- be elected by universal suffrage, that
tionable to enable and even to require
is, by the believers.
Its members
in the last resort such delegates as must be manifestations of the fear of
cannot possibly undertake the jour- God, and daysprings of knowledlge
ney to the seat of the Bahb'i Couven- and understanding, must be stead-
tion to send their votes, for the elec- fast in God's Faith, and the well-
tion of the National Spiritual As-
wishers of all mankind. By this as-
sembly only, by mail to the National sembly is meant the Universal As-
Secretary."
sembly: that is, in each country a
Concerning the matter of drawing secondary Assembly must be insti-

OF BAH&~ CAUSE
tuted, and these secondary As-
semblies must elect the members of
the Universal one.
"Unto this body all things must be
referred. It enacteth all ordinances
iand regulations that are not to be
found in the explicit Holy Text. By
this body all the difficult problems are
to be resolved, and the Guardian of
the Cause is its sacred head and the
distinguished member, for life, of
that body. Should he not attend in
person its deliberations, he must ap-
point one to represent him. . . This
Assembly enacteth the laws and the
executive enforceth them. The legis-
lative body must reinforce the execu-
tive, the executive must aid and as-
sist the legislative body, so that,
through the close union and harmony
of these two forces, the foundation of
fairness and justice may become firm
and strong, that all the regions of the
world may become even as Paradise
itself.
"Unto the Most Holy Book every-
one must turn, and all that is not ex-
pressly recorded therein must be re-
ferred to the Universal Assembly.
That which this body, either unani-
mously or by a majority, doth carry,
that is verily the truth and the pur-
pose of God Himself.
Whoso doth
deviate therefrom is verily of them
that love discord, hath shown forth
malice, and turned away from the
Lord of t'le Covenant!'
Even at the present time, the Ba-
hL'is in all parts of the world main-
tain an intimate and cordial associa-
tion by means of regular correspond-
ence and individual visits. This con-
tact of members of diffcrcnt races,
nationalities and religious traditions
acteristics of Baha'i administration.
The first is its completely successful
reconciliation of the usually opposed
claims of democratic freedom and un-
answerable authority.
The second
is the entire absence from the Bahi'i
Cause of anything approaching the
institution of a salaried professional
clergy. The BahL'i conception of re-
ligion is one which combines mys-
ticism, which is a sacred personal ex-
perience, with practical morality,
which is a useful contact between the
individual and his fellow man. In
the nature of things, some souls are
more advanced than others, and the
function of spiritual teaching is
given special importance in the writ-
ings of BahB'u'llah and 'Abdu'l-Baha.
The Baha'i teacher, however, has no
authority over the individual con-
science.
The individual conscience
must be subordinated to the decisions
of a duly elected Spiritual Assembly,
but this relationship is entirely dif-
ferent in character and results from
the relationship of an individual with
minister or priest.
The third characteristic is the ab-
sence of internal factionalism, that
bane of all organized effort, and the
surc sign of the presence of spiritual
disease. The predominant spirit of
unity which distinguishes the BahB'i
Cause in its relation to the world,
making its followers strive for recon-
ciliation rather than partisan victory,
creates an internal condition, unlike
that which exists in movements
which accept partisan victory, in one
or another form, as their very reason
for 'being. Such movements can but
disintegrate from within; the Baha'i
is concrete proof that the burden of
Movement can but grow.
prejudice and the historical factors
Silgnificant also is the fourth char-
of division can be entirely overcome
acteristic, namely that the BahB'i
through the spirit of oneness estab- Cause has within it an inherent
lished by BahP'u'llih.
necessity operating slowly *but surely
The general student of religion will to bring its administration into the
not fail to note four essential char- hands of those truly fitted for the na-

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
ture of the work. The lesser vision
gives way invariably for the larger
vision, itself replaced by the still
larger vision in due time. The re-
sult is an inevitable improvement in
the qualities placed at the service of
the Cause, until the highest attributes
of humanity will be enrolled. In the
Bahi'i Cause we are actually witnes-
sing the fulfilment of that strange and
cryptic saying: The meek shall in-
herit the earth.
That the administrative machinery
is not an end in itself but merely the
means to spread everywhere the light
of faith and brotherhood, is fre-
quently expressed by the Guardian in
his general letters, and this brief s'ur-
vey may well close with one of those
passages: "Not by the force of
numbers, not by the mere exposition
of a set of new and noble principles,
not by an organized campaign of
teaching-no matter how world-wide
and elaborate in its character-not
even by the staunchness of our faith
or the exaltation of our enthusiasm,
can we ultimately hope to vindicate
in the eyes of a critical and sceptical
age the supreme claim of the Abhh
Revelation. One thing and only one
thinlg will unfailingly and alone se-
cure the undoubted triumph of this
sacred Cause, namely the extent to
which our own inner life and private
character mirror forth in their mani-
fold aspects the splendor of those
eternal principles proclaimed by Ba-
hC'u'll&h."
THE BAHA9f CALENDAR
Fvom "Bahd'u'lldh and the New Era," pages 155156
BY DR. J. E. ESSLENIONT
WONG different peoples and at
A different times many different
methods have been adopted for the
measurement of time and fixing of
dates, and several different calendars
are still in dally use, e. g., the Grego-
riau in Western Europe, the Julian in
many countries of Eastern Europe,
the Hebrew among the Jews, and the
Muhammadan in Muslim countries.
The B5b signalized the importance
of the dispensation which He came
to herald, by inaugurating a new cal-
endar. In this, as in the Gregorian
Calendar, the lunar month is aban-
doned and the solar year is adopted.
The BahC'i year consists of 19
months of 19 days each (i. e., 361
days), with the addition of certain
"Intercalary Days" (four in ordinary
and five in leap years) between the
eighteenth and nineteenth months in
order to adjust the calendar to the
solar year.
The Bab named the
months after the attributes of God.
The EahL'i New Year, like the ancient
Persian New Year, is astronomically
fixed, commencing at the March
equinox (March Zlst), and the Baha'i
era commences with the year of the
Bib's declaration (i. e., 1844 A. D.,
1260 A. H.)
In the not far distant future it will
be necessary that all peoples in the
world agree on a common calendar.
It seems, therefore, fitting that the
new age of unity should have a new
calendar free from the objections and
associations which make each of the

THE B A H ~ ' ~
CALENDAR
oldcr calendars unacceptable to lange
ity and convenience that proposed
sections of the world's population,
by the BBb.
and it is difficult to see how any other
The months in the BBb's Calendar
arrangement could exceed in simplic- are as follows :
MONTH
ARABIO NAME
TRANSLATION
FIRST DAYS
l.st
Bahi
Splendor
'
March 2 1 1
2nd
Jalhl
Glory
April 9th
3rd
Jamal
Beauty
April 28th
4th
'Aeamat
Grandeur
May 17th
5th
N6r
Light
June 5th
6th
Rahmat
Mercy
June 240h
7th
Kailimat
Words
July 13th
8th
AsmA'
Names
August 1st
9th
Kamhl
Perfection
August 20th
10th
'Izzat
Miglht
September 8th
11th
M~~shiyyat
Will
September 27th
12th
'Ilm
Knowledge
October 16th
13th
Qudrat
Power
November 4th
14th
Qawl
Speech
November 23rd
15th
MasB'il
Questions
December 12th
16th
Sharaf
Honor
December 31st
17th
SultLn
Sovereignty
January 19th
18th
Mulk
Dominion
Felsrutairy 7th
19th
'Uli
Loftiness
March 2nd
Intercalary Days, Feb. 26th t o  March lst, inclusive
BAHA'f FEASTS AND ANNIVERSARIES
Feast of Nawr6z (New Year),
Martyrdom of the Bib, July 9,
March 21.
(1850).
Feast of Ridvan (Declaration of
Birth of Bahi,u711ih, November 12,
Bahi'u'llhh), April 21 to May 3,
(1817).
(1863).
Declaration of the B&b, May 23,
Fete Day of 'Abdu'l-BahA, No-
(1844).
vember 26.
Ascension of BahB'u'llPh, May 28,
Ascension of 'Abdu'l-Bahi,
No-
(1892).
vember 28, (1921).

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
Mashriqu'l-Adhkhr in course of constructw~z at Wilmette, suburb of
Chicago, Illilcois.

THE MASHRIQU'L:ADHK~
THE MASHRIQU'L-ADHKAR
"The Dawning Place of God's Pvaiss"
R
ELIGION in its fullest develop- artifice of ritual. There will be the
ment, its perfection, will have music of voices but not of instrument.
the outward and visible form in com- Those who enter the Mashriqu'l-
plete correspondence wilth the in- AdhkBr will do so most frequently in
ward invisible spirit. Its institu- order to meditate and pray.
tions, its philosophy, and its essen-
The BahL'i House of Worship be-
tial spiritual purpose will be in full
comes new and unique in that the
harmony and agreement.
central edifice will be surrounded
The Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr, the sym- with accessory buildings of humani-
bol and embodiment of the Bah&'i
tarian intent, and the relation of all
Revelation, is the outcome and fulfill- these buildings one with another and
ment of the teachings of Bah&'ulllBh
with the central edifice discloses the
in the world of action. It embodies
relation of the organic functions of
those teachings in a manner applying
society with the spirit of religion.
them to daily life. It makes unity a
The
Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr perfectly
practice and habit as well as an ideal. symbolizes thq two-fold nature of re-
It identifies religion with the social
ligion--one aspect the turning to
body, not by materializing religion,
God, the other aspect service to man.
but by inspiring society. The ap- As 'Abdu'l-BahB has said: "Religion
pearance of an institution of this is an attitude toward God reflected in
character in the world today is a life."
proof of the re-birth of religion ac-
The writings of the BahB'i Move-
ceptable to those who have lost faith ment contain many references to the
in the evidences of doctrine.
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir.
The present age is moving toward
In the KitBb-i-Aqdas BahQ'u'llAh
the Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr in its realiza- said : "0 Concourse of creation ! 0
tion of the need to co-ordinate the people!
Construct edifices in the
churches with the fundamental prob-
most beautiful fashion possible, in
Jems of civilization, and in the will- every city, in every land, in the name
ingness
to abandon
unnecessary
of the Lord of Religions.
Adorn
duplication of religious effort. Corn- them with that which beseemeth
munity churches have come into ex- them. Then commemorate the Lord,
istence which foreshadow the BahL'i the Merciful, the Clement, in spirit
Temple in many respects, but none and fragrance.
possesses the whole range of its sig-
"Teach your children what hath
nificance.
been revealed through the Supreme
In the Mashriqu'l-Adhkir we have Pen. Instruct them in what hath de-
a house of worship and devotion open scended from the Heaven of great-
to people of all religions, races and
ness and power. Let them memorize
classes without distinction. Its serv- the Tablets of the Merciful and
ices consist of reading and chanting chant them with melodious voices in
the holy Word. The purpose is to the galleries built in the Temple of
turn the heart directly to the divine
the Mashriqu'I-AdhkBr.
m e  pray-
Source, and this purpose is not eom- ers of the Lord should be chanted in
patible with human sermons or the a manner to abtract the hearts and

BAHA'~ YEAX BOOK
souls.
Blessed is he who listeneth
unto the River of Life."
From Tablets and addresses of
'kbdu'l-Baha :
"Temples are symbols of the Re-
ality and Divinity of God-that is,
the Manifestation of God is the real
divine Temple and Collective Center
of which the Church is a symbol.
"The real Temple is the very Law
of God, for to that all humanity must
resort, and that is the center of unity
for all mankind. That is the Collec-
tive Center. That is the cause of ac-
cord and unity of the hearts. That
is the cause of the solidarity of the
human race. That is the source of
life eternal.
Temples are symbols
of that unifying force, in order that
when the people gather there, in a
given edifice of God, they may re-
call the fact that the Law has been
revealed for them and that the Law
is to unite them. That just as this
edifice was founded for the unifica-
tion of mankind, the Law preceding
and creating this Tempde wa: issued
therefore.
"In the Templc of the Lord man
must be submissive to God. 'He must
enter into a covenant with His Lord
in order that he shall obey His Com-
mands and be unified with his fellow-
men. He must not consider diverg-
ences of races nor difference of na-
tionalities; he must not view varia-
tion in denomination and creed, nor
should he take into account the dif-
fering degrees of
thoughts ; nay
rather, he should look upon all man-
kind and realize that all must become
united and agreed. He must recog-
nize all as one family, one race, one
nativity; all the servants of one God,
dwelling beneath the shelter of the
Mercy of God. Just as the external
world is a place where various peo-
ples of different hues and colors, of
various faiths and denominations
meet; just as they are submerged in
the Sea of Favors, likewise, all may
meet under the dome of the Mash-
riqu'l-Adhkar and adore the One God
in the same Spirit of Truth, for the
ages of darkness have passed away
and the century of Liight has arrived.
The imaginary prejudices are in
arocess of diswersion and the Lizht
of Unity is shking.
-
"In the days of the Manifestation,
any city wherein a Temple was
founded, afforded the means of
promulgation (of the Cause), the
confirmation of the hearts and the
confidence of souls; for in those
buildings the Name of God is ever
commemorated. For the tranquillity
and repose of the hearts there is no
other means save the commemora-
tion of Almighty God.
"The original purpose is this: that
is why His Holiness BahO'u'llLh has
commanded that a place be built for
all the religionists of the world. Not
only does the Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr have
an effect upon those who built it but
upon the whole world."
"The Mashriqu'l-Adhkir must have
nine sides, doors, fountains, paths,
gateways, columns and gardens, with
the ground floor, galleries and domes,
and in design and construction must
be beautiful.
The mystery of the
edifice is great and cannot be un-
veiled yet, but its erection is the
most important undertaking. of this
Day.
"The Mashriqu'l-AdhkAr has im-
portant accessories, which are ac-
counted of the basic foundations.
These are :-school for orphan chil-
dren, hospital and dispensary for the
poor, home for the incapable, colle*
for higher scientific education and
hospice. In every city a great Mash-
riqu'l-Adhkar must be founded after
this order. In the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar
services will be held every morning.
There will be no organ in the Temple.
In buildings near by, festivals, serv-
ices, conventions, public meetings
and spiritual gatherings will be held,

THE MASHRIQI
but in the Temple the chanting and
singing
will
be
unaccompanied.
Open ye the gates of the Temple to
all mankind.
"When these institutions, college,
hospital, hospice, and establishment
for the incurables, university for the
study of higher sciences, giving post-
graduate courses, and other philan-
thropic buildin)gs are built, the doors
will be opened to all the nations and
religions.
There will be absolutely
no line of demarcation drawn. Its
charities will be dispensed irrespec-
tive of color or race. Its gates will
be flung wide open to mankind;
prejudice towards none, love for all.
The central building will be devoted
to the purpose of prayer and worship.
Thus. . . . . .rellglon will become
harmonized with science, and science
will be the handmaid of religion, both
showering their material and spir-
itual gifts on all humanity."
"Now the day has arrivcd in which
the Ediflce of God, the Divine Sanctu-
ary, the Spiritual Temple shall be
erected in America. I entreat God to
assist the confirmed believers In ac-
complishing this great service and
with entire zeal to rear this mighty
structure, which shall be renowned
throughout the world. The support
of God will be with those believers in
that district, that they may be suc-
cessful in their undertaking.
For
this cause is great because this is the
first
Mashriqu'l-AdhkCr
in
that
country.
"Verily the founding of the Mash-
riqu'l-AdhkLr will mark the incep-
tion of the Kingdom of God on earth.
It is the evident standard waving in
the center of that great continent of
America.
Make the erection of the
Temple in America conducive to the
unity and oneness of the believers,
of the maid-servants and servants 01
the Merciful, so that in one thought,
one aim, they engage themselves in
building the Temple. Think not that
this Templc will bc liltc thc hundred
thousand gigantic Temples you see
about you. Know ye that when this
Temple of God shall be built in Chi-
cago it will be to the spiritual body of
the world what the inrush of the
spirit is to the physical body of man,
quickening it to its utmost parts and
infusing a New Light and Power.
Should the believers undertake (the
erection of the Temple) in many
places, it will not become completed
anywhere; and as in Chicago they
have preceded every other place to
plan the erection of the Temple, un-
doubtedly to co-operate and help them
is nobler and a necessity. Then when
it is built in one place it will become
erected in many other places.
God
willing, in all the states of America
in the future there will be erected
Temples, with infinite architectural
beauty, with pleasing proportions and
handsome and attractive appear-
ances."
"Praise be to God that, a t  this
moment, from every country in the
world according to their various
means, contributions are continually
being sent toward the fund of the
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir in America.
In
reality this magnanimity of the be-
lievers is worthy of great praise and
thankfulness. This donation in the
path of the Orb of Religions is con-
ducive to the happiness of the souls
of the spiritual ones. From the day
of Adam until now, such an event has
never been witnessed by man that,
from the fanthermost country of
Asia contributions were forwarded to
America. This is through the Power
of the Covenant of God.
"Verily this is a cause of astonish-
ment to the people of perception.
"The debt on the land of the Mash-
riqu'l-AdhkLr is clear.
This news
made the hearts happy. Collect con-
tributions for the building and then
think about the plans.
It is hoped
that the believers of God may show

FiAHL'f YEAR BOOK
magnanimity and raise a great sum
for the building, that the foundation
of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar may be laid
by the hands of 'Abdu'l-BahB.
I
want everyone left free to act as he
wills. If anyone wishes to put money
into other things, let him do so. Do
not interfere with him in any way,
but be assured that-the most im-
portant thing at this time is the build-
ing of the Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr. . . ."
"When the Mashriqu'l-Adhkir is
completed, when the lights are eman-
ating therefrom, the prayers are per-
formed with supplication toward the
Mysterious Kingdom (of Heaven),
the voice of glorification is raised to
the Lord, the Supreme;-then the be-
lievers shall rejoice, the hearts be
dilated and overflow with the love
of the All-living and Self-existent
(God).
The people shall hasten to
worship in the heavenly Temple, the
Fragrances of God will be elevated,
the Divine Teachings will be estab-
lished in the hearts like the estab-
lishment of the Spirit in mankind;
the people will then stand firm in the
Cause of our Lord, the Merciful.
Whosoever arises for the service of
this building shall be assisted with
great power from His Supreme King-
dom, and upon him spiritual and
heavenly blessings shall
descend
which shall fill his heart with won-
derful consolation and enlighten his
eyes by beholding the Glorious and
Eternal God."
It may be questioned whether any
modern edifice has attracted such
Widespread interest as the Bourgeois
design of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkir,
descriptions
and
illustrations
of
which have appeared in newspapers
and magazines throughout the world.
Even in China and Japan the press
gave details of this universal reli-
gious structure, and in architectural
and engineering journals the design
has been acclaimed as the inaugura-
tion of a new style and period.
Thc symbolism of the Temple has
been sympathetically interpreted by
Mary Hanford Ford :
"The Temple model is a nonagon,
or nine sided structure, with nine
doors, nine ribs in the dome, nine
openings on each side, etc. All the
dimensional numbers of the temple
are related to nine.
"Nine is the number of perfection,
both in the ancient numerology of
Pythagoras and the cabala, and in
that of the present day. . . . In the
older systems 9 represented the high-
est perfection of man, while 10 stood
for God and man united, as in the
Messiah. In the BahL'i symbolism,
9 adds to its own power that of 10,
because it stands for the Glory, or
BahL, which is God.
"It is actually formed by the word
Bahi, the Glory, because in the
Arabic langua~e
letters are numerical
symbols also. B is 2; A is 1; H is 5,
and A is 1 again, and the consensus
of all makes 9. So the nine doors of
the Temple symbolize the perfect
number of paths to God, and thus
unity in the Glory of BahB, and the
prevalence of 9 in the numerical
structure of the temple creates heav-
enly unity in its vibration.
"19 is the BAb's number for unity,
and 5 is the number of the Bab him-
self. So these numbers reappear con-
stantly. There are 18 steps at each
of the nine entrances of the Temple,
which with the completing doorway
make 19-and each door (a 19) be-
comes a recurring symbol of the BBb
himself, because as we remember, BBb
is a title meaning a door between
heaven and earth. There are nine
openings on each of the nine sides of
the Temple on the first and second
stories, producing the number 81 or
spiritually 9, and 3 small doors on
each side of the third story, making
27--or again 9. There are 9 columns
on the first story, 9 buttress orna-
ments on the second, 9 ribs to the

THE MASHRIQU'L-ADHK~R
great dome, so that one can never pointed star, the Messiah.' The five
escape the heavenly presence of
pointed star has been for ages the
the 9.
It becomes the emblem of
symbol of the earthlp Messenger.
perfection, more definitely exempli-
'Albdu'l-Bahi says in the Tablet of
fied in the Bahb'i teaching than ever
the Ringstone: 'The two stars repre-
before; as the 9 reflected through the sent the divine origin and also the hu-
Bahi or the Glory, it becomes the man personality of the Bkb and Ba-
emblem of the divine messenger upon
hi'u'llbh, because the human being
earth, BahB'u'llAh, Christ, Zoroaster,
like the star has five points, the head,
Moses, et al.
the two arms and the two legs.'
"The surfaces of the Temple are
<'The triangle has another symbol-
covered with a geometrical ornamen- ism, and a very beautiful one, that of
tation, exquisite in character, and
humanity with its base upon the
~ufficiently interesting
from
its earth and its point reaching up to
beauty alone. These traceries, when
heaven, and this is also a part of the
examined, are made up of the most
heavenly meaning of the six pointed
beautiful combinations of the tri- star. The five pointed star was used
angle, the square and the circle: The by the early Christians as the symbol
Swastika cross of the Egyptian of Christ, and the cross came later
hieroglyphics is one, the five pointed
with the introduction of theology
star, the six pointed star,the glorious
into Christian teachings.
nine pointed star, and last but not
' ' ~ h ~  has been from very
least the looped life symbol of the old
periods the
of infinity
E'mptian hieroglyphics, which was
,d
eternity, and is commonly seen
carried by the priests in the sacred
the temple of xndia,
processions of the worship of Di-
associated with the serpent
of the
onysos in Greece.
past. The square is the old cabalistic
"The Swastika cross is the oldest
of realization or
religious symbol known. It became
tion in earthly form for the micro-
indicative of the divine creative fire,
cosm or human, while 8 or the cube
and life, and the looped cross, the is the symbol of realization for the
Greek cross, the Roman Cross are its
M~~~~~~~~ or ~
i
~
i
~
~
M
~
~
.

~h~
modifications. The Roman cross with
glorious nine pointed star is of course
the elongated arm has become the the symbol of divine manifestation
symbol of sacrifice through its rela-
belonging to the new day.
~h~
tion to Christ. There is a lovely row
Temple itself is a nine pointed star.
Swastikas around the base of the
Looked at from an aeroplane it would
dome, repeated again toward its
seem a great star dropped upon the
and these will show brilliantly when
ground, and when li,ghted at night all
it is lighted at night.
, ' T ~ ~
triangle has ,been from time
itsnine points will appear brilliantly.
immemorial the symbol of the great The nine pointed star forms the
trinity, the Essence, the Orb snd the
beautiful roselike top of each window
M
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
,
or ~
~
d
,

the ~
~
t
h
~
~
,

or
and door of the temple's lower story,
Logos, and the Son, as Christ puts it.
while at the center of each star
~h~ six pointed star or double tri-
gleams the decorative lettered form
angle is thus the symbol of the heav-
of the Greatest Name. This will be
enly Sun or Logos behind the earthly always illumined and shining, so that
Messenger. So that the old orthodox
the Glory of the Most Glorious will
Jewish Rabbis say today: 'We have penetrate every worshipper who en-
always had the six pointed star, but ters the temple. A larger replica of
we are now looking for the five the same illumined symbol forms the

BA~tl'f YEAR BOOK
center in decoration above the doors
and speaks again of the meaning of
the great Temple.
"There is a charming story in
Hindu mythology to the effect that,
when the great God Brahm finished
his avatar on this earth, he did not
ascend, but went to sleep in a lotus
flower until it should be time for him
to awaken for another mission to
mankind. Over the low archway of
each entrance to the Temple is a deli-
cate and graceful tracery which at-
tracts the eye and, when one ex-
amines it, there is revealed a succes-
sion of lotus flowers, and in the cen-
ter of each is the looped symbol of
life, which comes to us from Egypt
and Greece, and appears here again
as the note of awakening, of resur-
rection in the lotus flower of the
world. It is singularly fitting that
the story of Brahm should be recalled
in the decoration of the Temple of
mankind and should arise there under
the symbol of
life, because the
Temple contains in its glorious en-
semble the unity of all faiths and
the aspirations of all hearts.
"There is an ornament in the
dome which appears also in the upper
part of the columns and is unlike any
other portion of the decoration. It
is a whirling succession of elongated
circles, and Bourgeois says that, in
drawing the dome especially, he
would begin to think of the orbits of
the planets and their whirling spaces,
and then his fingers would create
these wonderful lines, as his thoughts
roamed among the stars. Thus a new
symbol has been added to those of the
past, which might be called that of
the unity of the heavens.
"The structure of the Temple is
such that at night all its surfaces will
be a blaze of light. Its decorations
are cut completely through the terra
cotta (or other) substance, which is
to be lined with transparent glass, so
that a t  night each column and but-
tress ornament as well as the stars
and crosses and 'milky way' of the
dome, will shine forth like an em-
broidery upon the darkness. So the
Temple will be veritably a temple of
light in this day of resurrection, of
brotherhood and new civilization.
"The nine ribs joined above the
surface of the dome are like hands
clasped in prayer, Bourgeois says,
and in the space between their union
and the rounded top of the dome
proper, will shine a great electric
light sending forth nine bars into
the darkness of the night, and form-
ing a glorious illumined climax to the
beautiful nonagon structure."
BRIEF HISTORY OF THE MASHRIQU'L-ADHKAR IN AMERICA
TO 1915
H
AVING heard enthusiastic re-
ports of the building of the first
Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr
in
'IshqLbLd,
Russia, the members of the Spiritual
committee
(better known as the
"House of Spirituality" ) of the Chi-
cago Assembly were inspired to sup-
plicate to the Center of the Cove-
nant, 'A~bdu'l-Baha, to grant permis-
sion for the second Mashriqu'l-Adh-
kLr to be built in America.
On June 7, 1903, a tablet was re-
vealed in Acca by 'Abdu'l-Baha say-
ing, "Now the day has arrived in
which the edifice of God, the divine
sanctuary, the Spiritual temple, shall
be erected in America."
The following words from the pen

of 'Abdu'l-BahA clearly indicatc thc
erection of a material building: "The
Mashriqu'l-Adhkdr, t h o  u g h o u t -
wardly a material foundation, is pos-
sessed of spiritual effect and causes
the union of hearts and the gather-
ing of souls. . . . Praise be to God !
The erection of the Mashriqu'l-
Adhkar has a great effect in all
grades (or states). It was tested in
the east and so evidently and plainly
was it proved good (that) even when
in a village a house was called the
Mashriqu'l-AdhkAr, it possessed a
different effect. How much more its
building and organization." Further-
more, he says, "The Mashriqu'l-
AdhkBr is the most important matter
and the greatest divine institute.
Consider how the first institute of
his holiness Moses, after his exodus
from Egypt was the 'Tent of Martyr-
dom' which he raised and which was
the traveling temple. It was a tent
which they pitched in the desert
wherever they abode, and worship-
ped in it. Likewise, after his holi-
ness Christ-May the spirit of the
world be a sacrifice to Him-the first
institute by the disciples was a
temple.
They planned a church in
every country. Consider the Gospel,
(i. e., read it), and the importance
of the Mashriqu'l-Adhar will be-
come evident. I hope thati all the be-
loved of God, collectively, on the con-
tinent of Amerlca, men and women,
will strive night and day until the
Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr is erected in the
utmost solidity and beauty."
And again: "Today, the establish-
ment of the Mashriqu'l-AdhkAr is of
paramount importance, but hereafter
it shall not be so. This is the begin-
ning of organization; it is like unto
the first church founded in Chris-
tianity; it is an expression of the ele-
vation of the Word of God."
While in London, on his first Eu-
ropean trip, 'Abdu'l-BahB told Mr.
Charles Mason Remey that "its huild-
ing is thc most important of all
things. This is the spiritual founda-
tion, for that reason it is the most im-
portant of all foundations; from that
spiritual foundation will come forth
all manner of advancement and prog-
ress in the world of
humanity.
Therefore, how great is its import-
ance."
To Mrs. Helen S. Goodall and Mrs.
Ella G. Cooper, 'Abdu'l-Bah6 said :
"To have it built is most important.
Some material things have spiritual
effect, and the Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr is
a material thing that will have great
effect upon the spirits of the people.
Not only does the building of the
Mashriqu'l-AdhMr have an effect
upon those who build it, but upon the
whole world." "In the Mashriqu'l-
AdhkBr, services will be held every
morning and the words of BahL'-
u'llah only are to be read."
While in Ramleh, Egypt, 'Abdu'l-
Bah& assured Mr. Percy Woodcock
that "The most important thing in
this day is the speedy erection of the
edifice. Its mystery is great and can-
not be unveiled as yet. In the future
it will be made plain."
During the sojourn of Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Haney in the prison home of
'Abdu'l-Baha, he said: "When the
Mashriqu'l-Adhkar, with its acces-
sories, is established in the world,
aside from its religious or spiritual
influence, it will have a tremendous
effect upon civilization. Aside from
the religionists, who will feel its in-
fluence, materialists will not be ex-
empt therefrom.
Moreover, it con-
tains divine wisdom, spiritual effects
upon the intellects and thoughts.
Subsequent to its erection these will
become evident."
This important point was made
clear to a pilgrim visiting him,
namely, that "The organization of
worshipping places is not simply for
drawing near to God, but it is to con-
centrate the word of spirit of God

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
and cause the power of unity and one-
ness among the people."
Regarding the locating of this edi-
fice of God, 'Abdu'l-Baha wrote to the
friends of New York City : "Concern-
ing the erection of the temple; now
alb the believers must become united,
so that the temple may be built soon
in one place.
For should the be-
lievers undertake (the erection of the
temple), in many places, it will not
become completed anywhere; and as
in Chicago they have preceded every
other place to plan the erection of
the temple, undoubtedly to co-operate
and help them is nobler and a neces-
sity. Then when it is built in one
place it will become erected in many
other places, God willing in all the
states of America, in the future, there
will be erected temples, with infinite
architectural beauty and art, with
pleasing proportions and handsome
and attractive appearances, especi-
ally in New York."
Also to Dr. Edward Getsinger,
'Abdu'l-Baha wrote: "Regarding the
building of the temple in Chicago,
both of you (Dr. and Mrs. Getsinrger)
display the utmost effort in encourag-
ing and inspiring the believers and
the maid-servants of God, so that
they may assist in the matter with
generosity, and thus soon this temple
will be erected.
This matter is of
great importance."
("Utmost im-
portance" in 'Abdu'l-Bahi's
own
handwriting).
When Eshte'al-Ebn Kalanter wrote
regarding a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar on
Monsalvat
(Green Acre, Maine),
'Abdu'l-BahB replied : "Concerning
the building of a Mashriqu'l-Adhkar
on Monsalvat: It is certain that be-
fore long this shall be built; and this
is an ordained (or fixed) matter ; but
in Chicago it is two or three years
since a number of people are making
efforts. Now while the building of
this temple is not yet started or en-
gaged in, if there be the founding of
a second temple undertaken, neither
of the two would be accomplished and
this failure would weaken the Cause."
Mr. Mountfort Mills received a
tablet from 'Abdu'l-BahA
saying:
"The Mashriqu'l-Adhkir of Chicago
is of the greatest importance. This,
Baha'i temple is a supreme house of
worship, a place of spiritual gather-
ing and of the manifestation of di-
vine mysteries. The friends of God
must endeavor with all their hearts
and souls that this structure may be
raised and completed."
The Center of the Covenant has
written : "One must first grasp those
affairs which will make growth (in
the Cause) and also be in time and
season."
From the foragoing quotations it
is manifest that the Mashriqu'l-
Adhkir is founded on the "Rock of
Ages," the eternal Word of God, as
to its object, location and appropriate
time for its erection.
A brief sketch of the work ac-
complished may prove interesting :
In the spring of 1907, while
Messrs. Chase, Agnew and Schemer
were in the prison home of 'Abdu'l-
BahL, he said to them: "Concerning
the temple, the Mashriqu'l-Adhkir is
a very important matter, the most im-
portant thing now in America is the
building of the temple. You and your
friends must endeavor in this mat-
ter. This building will be the cause
of the confirmation of the believers.
It has a great effect because it is the
beginning of the, foundation. After
centuries it is not so important as it
is now, but now it is very important.
At first they build the temple and
worship in it and grow.
In past
times they could not build it so out-
wardly.
This building will be the
cause of unity and prosperity of the
Cause. The unity comes ; from every
part the believers will assist. This
is a heavenly society and also it will
be the cause of strength. The be-

HISTORY OF MASHRIQU'L-ADHK~R
lievers will get blessings and hn~~nties. consist of fourteen lots.
The spir-
It cannot be compared with the itual meeting of the Chicago Assemb-
church of the old time.
You have ly, after bringing the matter before
only to begin, everythin~g will be all
the assembly for approval, took title
right!'
to two of the lots in the name of the
When this message was brought
treasurer of the assembly, Mr. Carl
back to America a new activity in the
Schemer, and arose to obey the Cen-
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir resulted through-
ter of the Covenant when he said:
out the country and contributions
"You have only to begin, everything
from various assemblies and indivi-
will be all right." The sum of $2,000
duals were received. A convention
was paid fur those two lots on April
was called for November 26, 1907, to
9, 1908.
be held in Chicago.
This was the
On June 19, 1908, a tablet was re-
first Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr convention,
vealed by 'Abdu'l-Baha and trans-
regarding which 'Abdu'l-Baha wrote
lated by his daughter
Moneveh
to Mr. Charles Sprague: "Thou hast
Khanum, in which he wrote, "Ask
written concerning the organization
every spiritual meeting in the other
of a council for the building of the cities that they will each select one
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir.
T h i s n e w s
and send him, and from these selected
brought much spirit and fragrance,
ones and with those who are selected
for the nine delegates sent by the from the Chicago meetings, establish
various assemblies gathered in that
a new meeting for the provision of
meeting and consulted concerninig the the means of the temple. If this is
building of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkar."
established with perfect fragrance
Several possible tracts of land on
and joy, it will produce great results.
both the south and north sides of the In this new meeting, especially for
city had been investigated, as 'Abdu'l-
the establishment of the temple,
Baha had said to a pilgrim that it
women are also to be members!'
must be near the lake. The morning
In compliance with these instruc-
of the day of November 26,1907, the tions from 'Abdu'l-Bahi, the House
delegates visited the south side tract.
of Spirituality of the Chicago As-
noting carefully the surroundings, re-
sembly called the second Mashriqu'l-
turning to . the home of Mrs. Grace
AdhkBr convention for March 22nd
Foster for a sumptuous (Thanksgiv- and 23rd, 1909, the proceedings of
ing day) feast, prepared in the name
which were accurately recorded by
of the Center of the covenant by the
Miss Gertrude Buikema and Mr.
Chicago maid-servants.
It was at Charles Ioas, duly elected to act as
first feared that such a feast of good
secretaries, and afterwards printed.
things had incapacitated the dele- Thus the tiny mustard seed of nine
gates to visit the north shore tract in
delegates grew in the two interven-
the afternoon but it made them
ing years to four times nine. The
stronger for the trip, both spiritually
Baha'i Temple Unity resulted, as an
and physically. That evening a spir-
organization, with full power and
ited meeting was held over the loca- authority to provide ways and means
tion and it was unanimously voted
for the erection of the Mashriqu'l-
that the north shore tract was most
AdhkBr.
A constitution was pre-
desirable.
Miss Gertrude Buikema
sented and adopted and the first
took the minutes of this meeting.
executive board of BahB'i Temple
Upon closer investigation the north
Unity was elected and authorized by
shore tract (now the site of the the convention to close and complete
Mashriqu'l-Adhkar)
was found to
the purchase of the land, recom-

'EAR BOOK
mended by the first convention, 1907,
of which two lots had been bought
and paid for, with an option secured
on the remaining twelve lots.
Im-
mediately after the close of the con-
vention the newly appointed execu-
tive board went into session, selecting
its officers in accordance with the con-
stitution. The treasurer of the Chi-
cago Assembly, Mr. Scheffler, in
whose name the title to the two lots
was held, turned over to the BahB'i
Temple Unity all official documents
and all monies held by him for the
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir, as follows :
Monies on hand. ...$ 3,666.44
..................
Land values
2,000.00
.................................
Total
$5,666.44
When the two lots had been pur-
chased, Mr. C. E. Brush, one of
Chicago's architects, kindly made a
plat of the tract and its surroundings,
which was sent to 'Abdu'l-Bahd.
A
beautiful txblet flowed from his pen,
"To the friends and maid-servants,"
saying that on the anniversary of the
declaration of his holiness the SU-
preme, the Bib, the map of the Mash-
riou'l-Adhkhr had been presented,
that "great joy was obtained thereby
and with the ercatest care it was con-
sidered," thag "it is indeed a delight-
ful spot worthy of this edifice and
building." (Date of this tablet July
4, 1908).
The members of the Executive
Board of BahL'i Temple Unity ap-
pointed Messrs. Mills, Hall and
Jacobsen, a committee to attend to
the land negotiations, and an offer of
$32,500 for the remaining twelve lots
was made and accepted with a con-
tract providing for the payment of
$5,000 every six months, with inter-
est, commencing July 1, 1909. A re-
ligious corporation was effected un-
der the laws of Illinois in the name
"Bahd'i Temple Unity" and the title
to the land secured.
The third Mashriqu'l-AdhliLr con-
vention convened in Chicago, April
25 and 26,1910. Report of the work
done during the year was given by
the secretary, Mr. Jacobsen, and the
financial secretary's report showed
contributions for the fiscal year :
From the Orient ..$ 7,092.85
F r o m  America
.........
and Europe
7,638.66
Turned over by
......
Mr. Scheffler
5,666.44
Total .............................. $20,397.95
($2,000 of this being land)
Contributions
had
come
from
India, Persia, Turkey, Syria, Pales-
tine, Russia, Egypt, G e r m a n  y ,
France, England, Canada, Mexico,
Hawaiian Islands, and a little island
far out in the Indian Ocean, Maure-
tius.
Besides from sixty different
American cities.
The words of the
Center of the Covenant had literally
been fulfilled: "You have only to be-
gin-everything will be all right."
The fourth Mashriqu'l-Adhkir con-
vention was held in Chicago, May 1
and 2, 1911.
A command having
come from Acca to hold the conven-
tion during the Ridvdn days. Dur-
ing the fiscal year, April 23, 1910, to
April 29, 1911, the total contribu-
tions were:
The Orient and
Europe .................. $ 1,190.83
America ....................
9,210.76
.............................
Total
$10,401.76
The fifth convention in Chicago,
April 29th to May 1, 1912, will eter-
nally wear the glorious crown of be-
stowal because of the presence of the
Center of the Covenant and his dedi-
cation
of
the Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr
grounds, May 1, 1912. During this
fiscal year the lake shore tract of 293
feet frontage had been contracted for
and payment made on it, the pur-

HISTORY OF MASHRIQU'L-ADHK~R
chase price being $17,000. The con-
tributions for the year having been
$7,292.45.
The sixth convention was enter-
tained by the friends of New York
City, April 28 and 29,1913. Regard-
ing this wonderful convention 'Ab-
du'l-Baha wrote to Mr. Wilhelm,
saying :
"Praise be to God, that the New
York believers became confirmed in
the accomplishment of a great serv-
ice and held in that city the consulta-
tion convention for the erection of
the Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr.
They dis-
played the utmost of effort until that
convention was inaugurated with in-
finite perfection. They exercised the
greatest love and kindness towards
all the delegates who had come from
the different states. They united and
entertained the delegates in their
homes. With perfect affection they
spread before them the banquet of
hospitality. Every one became grate-
ful and happy. This event will adorn
an important and blessed page in the
BahB'i history."
At this convention the commemo-
ration of the ninth day of every
month as Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr day was
proposed and afterward confirmed by
'Abdu'l-BahL and has proved a very
great impetus to the Mashriqu'l-
AdhkBr work. The friends of other
countries join with us in observing
the day ; very beautiful are the letters
from our four American sisters in
TeherBn telling of their holding this
ninth day with us.
The first contribution for the fiscal
year April 30, 1912 to April 19,1913,
was a gift from the Center of the
Covenant at the closing session of the
previous
convention
in Chicago.
Also this year marked the completion
of the payment on the site dedicated
by 'Abdu'l-BahL and an indebtedness
of $9,000 on the Lake Shore tract re-
mained only, its entire liquidation
being urged before the expiration of
1913. The contributions for the year
having been $14,206.42.
Another year soon rolled around
and Chicago was again blest with a
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir convention, which
was the seventh convention.
It also
marked the fiftieth anniversary of
the Declaration of BahP'u'llih.
At the close of the year 1913 the
money came literally rolling in for the
cancellation of all land debts and a
cablegram was sent to 'Ahdu'l-BahA
announcing that the BahL'i Temple
Unity had completed its land obliga-
tions.
Thus the new year, 1914,
dawned free of any clouds for the
Mashriqu'l-AdhkAr work so that the
building fund might be started. The
financial secretary reported contribu-
tions for the year $13,503.79 and the
Unity entirely out of debt with land
holdings for which $51,500 had been
paid and which was worth almost
double the price paid.
Complete
unity and harmony marked the ses-
sions of this seventh convention.
And now the eighth Mashriqu'l-
AdhkLr convention and first BahL'i
congress has convened in San Fran-
cisco. Thus our conventions held in
the United States of America have
travelled from coast to coast.
Almost immediately after the sec-
ond convention, when the BahL'1
Temple Unity resulted, the president
of the first Executive Board, Mr.
Mountfort Mills, of New York City,
visited the Center of the Covenant
who was still a prisoner of the Turk-
ish Government, though liberated in
July of that same year, 1908.
Mr.
Mills wrote: "At the temple conven-
tion, he seemed most pleased and
satisfied and assured us that the fu-
ture would see many more, constantly
increasing in numbers, attending and
bringing together
representatives
from all parts of the world. He said
that these gatherings would be to the
spiritual body of the world what the
inrush of the spirit is to the physical

B A ~ l i ' f  YEAR BOOK
body of man, quickening it to its ut-
Sixth Convention 13,503.79
most parts and infusing a new light
Seventh Conven-
and power."
tion ...........................
6,597.65
One of the most touchin,g gifts to
the building fund was a check for
Grand Total .......... $72,399.85
$1,000 addressed to "The BahL'i
Temple of Peace" and saying in the
Of the above amount $11,159.75
letter,
"In
Europe, fathers and
was from countries other than United
brothers have been torn from their
States, as follows:
wives and little children, and many
left at home are in want of dire
Enlgland:
St.
Ives,
Cornwall;
necessities. our beloved ones are not
Springfield, Broadway ; Manchester ;
facing mutilation, acute suffering and
London ; Sussex,
Bright0n ; War-
death. I send this as s thanksgiving
wicke; C1iftonl Bristol.
offering, though it seems min te in-
Ireland : Warrington, C 0 u n t y
deed toexpress what I feel."
During the fiscal year beginning
April 27, 1914, the monthly contribu-
tions have been as follows:
April 27 to May 1 $ 258 00
May
388 60
June
351.09
July
483 31
August
344.22
1,533 88
557.99
519.50
December
614.66
January
768.72
February
247.10
March
278.76
April 1 to April 18
251.82
Total to April 18,
1915 .......................... $6,597.65
Total receipts of
subscriptions
from August, 1907, to April, 1915.
First Convention $ 5,666.44
Second
Conven-
tion ...........................
14,731.51
T h i r d Conven-
tion ........................... 10,401.59
Fourth Conven-
L'  ion ...........................
7,292.45
Fifth Convention 14,206.42
Down.
France: Paris; Dinan, Brittany.
Germany : Berlin ; Stuttgart ; Es-
slingen ; Zuffenhausen.
Italy: Sienna ; Ravenna, Erba.
European Turkey : Constantinople.
Palestine : Acca ; Haifa.
Russia : Baku ; IshqBbLd.
Persia : Teheran ; Esphahan ; Gan-
gelie; Shiraz; Yahromi ; Resht; Ker-
manshah ; Sanstan ; Meshed ; Tiflis ;
Yazd ; Arabelli.
India : Rangoon ; Bombay ; Manda-
lay.
Egypt: Cairo; Port Said; Alexan-
dria.
South Africa; East Rand; Trans-
vaal ; Capetown.
New Zealand : Davenport ; Auck-
land.
Brazil : Sao Paulo.
Canada: Montreal ; Brockville ; St.
John's, N. B.
Islands of the Sea: Isle of Pines;
Isle of Mauretius; Hawaiian Islands.
Respectfully submitted,
CORINNE TRUE,
Financial Secretary, Bahh'i Temple
Unity.

MASHRIQU'L-ADHKAR
REPORT
EXTRACTS FROM MASHRIQU'L-ADHKAR REPORT
JUNE 15, 1925
BY CARL SCHEFFLER
A
T the Convention called by the
Secretary of the National Spir-
itual Assembly to discuss ways and
means for raising funds necessary
for the construction of the first story
of the Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr, which was
held in Chicago, October 19-20, 1924,
the Temple Committee was instruct-
ed to draft a compleke report on the
status of the Temple bork to be suh-
mitted to the National Spiritual As-
sembly for approval and to be sent
to the BahB'is of the United States
and Canada.
It is the purpose of this report to
deal specifically only with matters
that have transpired since the selec-
tion of the design of the building, but
in order to refresh the memories of
the friends regarding the wonderful
accomplishments of
the previous
years, we are presenting a brief r6-
sum6 of the various early stages of
the work.
EIARLY HISTORY
The inception of the Mashriqu'l-
Adhkbr in the West dates back to the
spring of 1903, twenty-two years ago,
at Which time the corner-stone of
the Mashriqu'l-Adhkbr in 'IshqLbLd,
Russia had been laid and photo-
graphs of the event sent to the mem-
bers of the House of Spirituality in
Ohicago, inspiring that body to arise
for the erection of a Mashriqu'l-
Adhkiir in America. In response to
their
supplication,
'Abdu'l-BahL
granted permission for the undertak-
ing in the following wonderful Tab-
let :
"I send you the glad-tidings of the
erection of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkbr
(The Bahfi'1 Temple) in 'IshqLbfid,
with all joy and great happiness.
The friends of God assembled to-
gether with rejoicing and conveyed
the stones themselves upon their
backs, while attracted by the love of
God and for the glory of God. Soon
that great Temple will be completed
and the voice of prayer and praise
shall ascend to the Sublime Kingdom.
"I was rejoiced through your en-
deavors in this glorious Cause, made
with joy and good interest. I pray
God to aid you in exalting His word,
and in establishing the Temple of
Worship, through His grace and
ancient mercy.
Verily, ye are the
first to arise for this Glorious Cause
in that vast religion. Soon will ye
see the spread of this enterprise in
the world, and its resounding voice
shall go through the ears of the peo-
ple in all parts.
"Exert your energy in accomplish-
fng what ye have undertaken, so that
this glorious Temple may be built,
that the beloved of God may assemble
therein and that they may pray and
offer glory to God for guiding them
to His Kingdom."
Since that time the work has pro-
gressed intermittently.
During the
first six years the members of the As-
sembly in Chicago strove enthusias-
tically so that in the spring of 1909
when the first Convention met in Chi-
cago, having been called by the House
of Spirituality for the purpose of
establishing the work of the Temple
on a national basis, the Chicago As-
sembly was able to report the acquisi-
tion of two lots at a cost of $2,000.00,
and a cash fund of $3,666.44.
PURCHASE O F  SITE
As before stated the purchase of
two lots in the main tract had been
completed by the House of Spiritual-
ity of Chicago, the deeds for which

BAHA'~
YEAR BOOK
were in doe time turned over to the
Bahh'i Temple Unity when it was or-
ganized just after the first Conven-
tion.
The remainder of the main
tract bounded by Linden Ave. on the
south, Sheridan Road on the north
and east, and by the property of the
Sanitary District of Illinois on the
west was purchased at a cost of $32,-
500.00.
The final payment on this
was made on October 1, 1912. The
purchase of the lake shore tract was
completed February 2, 1914. It cost
$17,000.00. There also is a small tri-
angular plot of land across Sheridan
Road, north of the main tract in-
cluded in these purchases.
The main tract measures on its
south boundary, Linden Ave., 607.55
ft., on its west boundary where it ad-
joins the property of the Sanitary
District of Illinois, from Linden Ave.
north to a point where the line strikes
a slight angle, it measures 257.80 ft. ;
on the same boundary another angle
135.52 ft., still another angle on this
line measures 138.06 ft. The Sheri-
dan Road line also turns slightly
several times, the sections of the line
beginning at the northwest measur-
ing east and south are 129.92 ft., 219.-
47 ft., 166.46 ft., and 271.46 ft. The
triallgular section measures on Sheri-
dan Road 141.49 ft., on the east 131.-
78 ft., and facing the Canal 141.49 ft.
The lake shore tract on Sheridan
Road measures 291.40 ft.; 3 ft. at the
south end of this line are in dispute,
depth at that point is 168 ft., and at
the north end it is 183 ft. to the water
edge.
THE BOURGEOIS DESIGN
The facts regarding the selection of
the model of the Temple by the be-
lievers at the 1920 Convention are
too well known to require much eluci-
dation; it might nevertheless be well
if some points regarding this are
mentioned.
'Abdu'l-BahB directed that the be-
lievers should sclcct the design at the
1920 Convention. A number of archi-
tects submitted designs, some in the
form of drawn plans and Mr. Charles
Mason Remey and Mr. Louis Bour-
geois
submitted
plaster
models.
After careful deliberation and dis-
cussion, after hearing the opinion of
disinterested men of standing in the
architectural profession, the Bour-
geois model was chosen. Mr. Remey,
who had submitted the other model,
made the motion that made the choice
unanimous. The selection of the Con-
vention was confirmed by 'Abdu'l-
BahL in numerous Tablets. We qoute
one of these written to Mrs. Corinne
True, as follows:
"Thanks be unto God that this Con-
vention was supported by the confi~-
mations of the Kingdom of Abha.
Praise be unto God that the model of
Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr
made by
Mr.
Bourgeois was approved by his honor,
Mr. Remey, and selected by the Con-
vention. The model of Mashriqu'l-
AdhkLr is, however, too big.
It
needs several million dollars for the
cost of construction. If possible Mr.
Bourgeois may reproduce the same
model on a smaller scale, so that one
million dollars may suffice for its con-
struction.
This should be recon-
sidered only if possible."
The design of the Bourgeois model
being a new and unique conception
does in its main character depart
somewhat from recognized architec-
tural standards, cheifly in the man-
ner in which the upper stories con-
nect with the lower part of the build-
ing. It is usual for the main ribs of
a structure to ascend directly from
the ground. In this design the main
ribs of the upper stories and dome
were shifted so that they connected
midway between the main or first
story buttresses, immediately above
the doorways. This caused consider-
able adverse criticism from laymen
and architects, so that the Executive

MASHRIQU'L-ADHKh REPORT
Board of BahA'i Temple Unity or-
dered Mr. Bourgeois to prepare a set
of drawings altering this particular
feature. This work was in the na-
ture of an experiment to assure the
members of the Board in whose hands
the responsibility rested, that the Ba-
ha'is were not making a mistake in
building a structure that thus radi-
cally departed from recognized archi-
tectural standards. The result of the
experiment justified Mr. Bourgeois,
for it was found that the life and
beauty of the original model was not
in the building shown in the experi-
mental drawing. "It became a rigid
structure a n d 1 a c k e rl motion."
(Bourgeois).
The Executive Board also felt it
necessary to submit the design to
'Abdu'l-BahB, and since it was obvi-
ously impossible to send the model to
Haifa they directed Mr. Bourgeois to
prepare drawings showing a front
elevation and a cross section of the
building intending that the architect
himself should take these to Haifa
and there receive 'Abdu'l-BahB's in-
structions regarding the building.
This was done. About the middle of
January, 1921, Mr. Bourgeois sailed
to the Holy Land.
The drawings
were left with 'Abdu'l-BahiL, and they
now hang in the shrine of 'Abdu'l-
BahB.
It will also be noted that 'Abdu'l-
BahB in the Tablet just quoted di-
rected that if possible the size and
cost of the building should be consid-
erably reduced. To comply with this
instruction the Executive Board di-
rected Mr. Bourgeois to make experi-
mental
drawings
to
determine
whether or not the design would lend
itself a s  it stood to the necessary re-
duction. It was in the main found to
be feasible, the only notable change in
the building being in the number of
windows on either side of the en-
trance doors.
All of this work was
done in the period intervening be-
tween the Convention, which was
held in April 1920 and the first of
January 1921. The size of the struc-
ture was reduced from 450 ft. in di-
ameter to 153 ft. in diameter, and
the estimated cost reduced to about
$1,200,000.00. This includes a rough
plaster interior, an ornamental iron
rail on the balcony, but no decora-
tions for the interior.
ENGINEER'S REPORT
"My contact with the BahC'i Tem-
ple project in Wilmette started in the
fall of 1920. I met some members of
the Board at that time in connection
with the discussion of some municipal
plans of the Village of Wilmette in
their relation to the Temple project.
I also conferred with Mr. McDaniel
regarding the foundation plan, which
he was preparing at that time, and
gave some assistance to the Board in
securing bids and letting the contract
for the caisson foundations which
supported the central portion of the
building.
This contract was let to
Mr. Avery Brundage on the 17th day
of December, 1920.
"On January 5, 1921, I entered in-
to a contract with the BahB'i Temple
Unity to serve as its structural engi-
neer and superintendent of construc-
tion. By this contract I undertook to
prepare the structural, mechanical,
electrical and sanitary engineering
plans and specifications and to super-
vise the entire construction.
This
contract is still in effect. It was
stipulated in the contract that I was
authorized to proceed with the prepa-
rations of the plans for the founda-
tions and basement structure and that
I should not prepare any plans of the
superstructure until further authori-
zed.
"It was further contemplated that
it would not be necessary for me to
make plans of the caisson foundations
so that on this item my conlpensation
would be for supervision only. How-

B A H A ' ~  YEnR BOOK
ever, a modification of this arrange-
ment was made soon after because it
became necessary to make certain
structural plans of the superstruc-
ture in order to get a building permit
and in doing this work it proved
necessary to revise the caisson foun-
dation designs which had been made
previously.
"Only so much additional work was
done as was necessary to serve the
two purposes cited.
"As stated above, a contract was
let to Avery Brundage on December
17, 1920, for nine caisson founda-
tions under the central portion of the
building with the intention of pro-
ceeding immediately with this por-
tion of the work.
"An informal application was made
to the Village of Wilmette for a per-
mit on December 21, 1920.
No ac-
tion was taken but on the contrary,
some opposition developed and it was
necesary to file a formal application
for permit, which was done on Janu-
ary 7, 1921. Permit was refused at
this time because plans of the build-
ing structure were not submitted as
required by ordinance.
This situa-
tion made it necessary to proceed with
preparation of general structural
plans sufficient to comply with the
ordinances of the Village.
"These plans were drawn as rapidly
as possible and were filed with a
formal application on March 4, 1921,
and the building permit was issued
on the 19th day of March. This per-
mit covered not only the work then
under contract but the construction
of the entire building. Under the or-
dinances of the Village this permit
would probably be considered as still
in
effect,
although
the
Village
authorities could require the taking
out of a new permit on account of
the long suspension of operations.
"Two contracts of
considerable
amount have been carried out from
my plans and under my supervision,
namely, with Avery Brundage for
nine caissons, amounting to $76,350.-
00, and with McCarty Brothers for
the
general
basement
section,
amounting to $108,500.00. In addi-
tion to these, there have been several
miscellaneous items which are shown
on your records and which, with the
above aggregate a total of $187,-
876.35.
Payments
made to me
amount to $8,000.00, which includes
payments to apply on account of the
extra work of preparin~g plans for
permit and for caissons.
"The Brundage contract for cais-
sons was completed early in the sum-
mer of 1921, having been quite seri-
ously delayed because of the large
amount of water encountered in dig-
ging the wells for these foundations.
These wells were approximately 120
ft. deep and extended about 90 ft.
below the level of the water in the
lake and the drainage canal near by.
"Soon after the completion of the
caisson contract, plans were sub-
mitted to contractors for the base-
ment structure.
This covered the
foundations other than nine caissons,
which were required for the outer
portions of the building and the com-
plete enclosure of the basement struc-
ture up to and including the first
floor. It did not include the base-
ment floor, the subdivision of base-
ment space, the finishing of base-
ment nor the installation of any of
the mechanical appliances.
"A contract was made with MC-
Carty Brothers of Chicago for this
work on August 24,1921. The start-
ing of the work was somewhat de-
layed by the time required to get the
necessary signatures to the contract.
Also the work occupied considerable
more time than was anticipated but
was finally completed in the fall of
1922.
"Since the completion of the base-
ment contract, no work of import-
ance has been done on the structure.
As it now stands, the structure com-
prises the entire basement enclosure,

which consists of the main enclosing
wall of concrete, about 200 ft. in
diameter and 20 ft. high; the sloping
concrete deck. which is to support
the steps encircling the main struc-
ture; and the reinforced concrete
deck which will be the first floor of
the main structure. Within this en-
closure are all of the supporting
columns required for superstructure
and beneath it are all of the founda-
tions required for the entire struc-
ture.
"Some work has been done to make
the interior of the basement partially
usable, such as the installation of
water, temporary lights, sewer con-
nection, furnaces, floor in the central
portion
and
other
miscellaneous
items. Some of this has been under
my supervision.
"Some filling material has been ob-
tained from other operations in the
neighborhood without expense, but
so far it amounts to only a small frac-
tion of the total filling that is re-
quired.
"The structure in its present con-
dition is rather unsightly and has re-
cently been the subject of some ad-
verse comment. This is probably a
continuance of the opposition which
was in evidence when the work was
started. The structure has necessar-
ily deteriorated somewhat on account
of exposure in its unfinished state,
but this has not developed to a serious
extent and can be overcome when
the general work proceeds, or soonel;
if need be.
"The Board authorized Mr. Bour-
geois, Architect of the BahB'i Temple
to proceed with his plans in 1921.
He did so and carried them to com-
pletion in 1922 to such extent as they
could be completed without having
the structural plans to co-ordinate
with the architectural plans.
Inas-
much as I was not authorized to pro-
ceed with the structural plans, I did
only such work on them as was ab-
solutely necessary to permit carrying
on the architectural plans. This con-
sisted principally in determining
some of the governing dimensions
and in some instances the relation of
the structural members to the archi-
tectural members. The plans which
were made for permit purposes were
very useful for the architect in this
connection.
"The architectural plans show all
of the exterior treatment of the build-
ing and in lange measure the interior
arrangement. There are some details
that could not be completed on ac-
count of the absence of the struc-
tural plans, as mentioned, and also be-
cause the exterior material had not
yet been determined.
"No specifications have been writ-
ten.
"The architectural plans are in
such condition that the essentials are
all given so that the work could be
carried on by some other competent
architect in case Mr. Bourgeois should
be incapacitated.
"At the request of the Board I ex-
amined the architectural plans and
reported substantially as above.
"Before work can proceed with
the superstructure, it will be neces-
sary first to make the structural plans
for it. The plans which were made
for permit purposes, having been de-
veloped from only preliminary archi-
tectural drawings, will not be serv-
iceable. They will have to be done
over and completed in very much
greater detail. Then it will be neces-
sary for a number of additional
drawings to be prepared in connec-
tion with the architectural work in
order to correlate the architectural,
structural and mechanical elements.
Also some additional work may be
necessary on the architectural draw-
ings, dependent upon the selection
of exterior material.
This will not
effect the design of ornamentation
but will affect the jointing of the ma-
sonry materials.
When these out-
standing questions are settled, the

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
MT. Bourgeois' house-studio on the lake shore property as seen from Sheridan Road
Wilmette, Illinois. The building i s  about 40 feet above the water and from the rea;
affords a commanding view over Lake Michigan.
The openings shown on the roof
walls and window balustrades are to have beautifully modeled punels when completed.
Interior of Mr. Bourgeois' hwse-studio. T o  the right are the living rooms below and
sleeping rooms above. Mr. Bourgeois is holding several rolls of drawings made by
h i m  for the Maehriqu'dAdhkar. On the floor and wall u p  to the ceililzg D antended
a full s i e  detail drawing 92 feet i n  length. The large photograph to the left i s  taken
from the modeled door section used t o  test materials for the structure.

MASHRIQU'L-ADHK~ REPORT
specificatiol~s car1 be written. A large ridian through the center of the Tem-
part of the specification work will fall
ple and from this the correct posi-
to my lot but some of it will be archi-
tion of this entrance established.
tectural.
"The original model of the Temple
"Early in 1921, the Board appoint-
was exhibited by special permission
ed a materials committee, consisting
in the Art Institute of Chicago from
of Mr. W. S. Maxwell, Mr. E. R.
March 8 to April 5, 1921, and by
Boyle, Mr. A. E. McDaniel, Mr. Louis shifting its location the exhibition
Bourgeois and Mr. H. J. Burt, Chair-
period was extended from April 5 to
man, to study the questions of mater-
May 2.
ials to be used in the construction of
"A common field stone to mark the
the Temple, having particular refer- location of the Temple building was
ence to the exterior material.
planted at the site by 'Abdu'l-Bahh
"A preliminary report was made at the time of his visit to Chicago in
on April 22, 1921, and a final report
1912. The location of the stone has
on February 18, 1922. These reports
been carefully preserved so that a
are on file with the Board. Mr. Bour- suitable marker can bc placed at the
geois and myself visited St. Louis spot in the completed structure.
and Nashville and I visited Washing-
" ~ t
should be borne in mind that a
ton and New York, as well as a num- considerable amount of work is re-
ber of points at and near Chicago, quired to prepare plans for proeeed-
gathering information regarding ma- ing with the construction and that I
terials. Some samples of terra cotta
am not at this time authorized to pro-
and artificial stone have been ex-
ceed with this work so ample notice
posed to the weather at the Temple
should be given.
site since 1922.
"I think I need say nothing regard-
"There are a number of miscella-
ing the desirability of proceeding
neous items in connection with the
with the work as soon as arrange-
work that are worth recording:
ments can be made for SO doing, for I
"About the time construction was
know that all connected with it, as
started, the Village of Wilmette was
well as the residents of the North
cpntemplating a change jn the loca-
Shore district, are anxious to see this
tlon of Sberidan Road In order to
magnificent structure carried for-
partially eliminate the dangerous ward to completion.
curve along side of the Temple prop-
erty. A shifting of the Road approxi-
ARCHITECT'S STATEMENT
mately 30 ft. westward at the maxi-
mum point was substantially agreed
"Regarding the work done on the
upon by all parties at interest but plans for the Temple. I would say
was not put into effect. The Temple that I have drawn a full set of plans
building was located, however, to pro- as follows : Floor plans, basement
vide for the possible contingency of
and gallery sections; a full set of
this change being made at some fu- detail drawings three-quarters inch
ture date, so that when made, it
(3/4") scale for one-ninth (1/9)
would not detract from the general
part, first, second, third story and
plan of the Temple grounds.
dome. Also all section and profile
"It was desired that the most used for one-ninth (1/9) part of the
entrance to the Temple should be to- Temple from floor to top of dome,
ward Acca. In order to establish this
full size.
Comprising altagether
accuratcly, astronomical observations
about thirty-six (36) rolls of draw-
were made to establish the true me- ings that vary in size from ten feet

BAHA'I YEA& BOOK
(10') long to onc hundred and nine
(109') feet.
"For iastance, one twenty-seventh
(1127) section of the dome is drawn
on two rolls of paper four feet six
inches (4'6) in width by forty-five
(45') feet in length. All of this work,
because of the unusual size, had to be
laid out and drawn on the floor. It
required a space two hundred and
fifty (250') feet long by forty (40')
feet wide.
"The full size drawings of the out-
er structure of this building were
required because all of the design
and tracery on this structure are en-
tirely new. From these drawings the
modellers under by supervision will
have to make the original moulds
from which the various sections of
the building are cast.
"This required considerably more
drawing and of exceptional difficulty
because of the large size that is done
on even highly ornamented build-
ings where more or less stock orna-
mentation is used.
"The Mashriqu'l-AdhkBr will re-
quire much more supervision than
any other building of even greater
size or cost because the character of
the ornamentation is entirely new
and the modellers will have to be in-
structed constantly.
The drawings
clearly show full size detail of the de-
sign, but the depth and pitch of the
modelling will have to be determined
by me as construction proceeds."
ESTIMATED COST TO COMPLETE STRUCTURE
The original esltimates given for the entire structure were as follows:
Actually expended on Ca'
Actually expended on Ba
EXPENDITURES APRIL 1, 1909-MARCH 31, 1925
Real Estate and Temple Building
Land (purchase price) .................................................
$51,500.00
.......................................................
and
..
5,706.76
204,828.46
8,932.50
8,728.10
36,700.00 259,189.06
MYRON H. POTTER
Chairman
CORINNE TRUE
Financial Secretary
A. F. MATTHISEN
Accountant
A L ~ E D
E. LUNT
AIBERT WINDUST
$316,395.82
Respectfully submitted,
BahB'i Temple Committee.
CARL SCHEFFLER
Secretary.

MASHRIQU'L-ADHK~ REPORT
THE MASHRIQU'L-ADHKAR OF 'ISHQABAD
I
SHQABQD, one of the chief cities
of Russian TurkistBn, is just north
of the Elburz mountains, which sepa-
rate the desert plain of western
Turkistan on the north from Persia
on the south. The city lies on a plain
a short distance from the mountains,
which here are quite rugged and
rocky. The town is quite modern in
aspect, being laid off with gardens
and broad streets meeting at right
angles. Rows of trees along the side-
walks remind one of a western city,
while the low buildings, walled gar-
dens, and waterways, which flank the
streets and are fed with water com-
ing from streams from the nearby
mountains, are strikingly oriental in
character.
This city was but a huddle of mud
huts when Bahb'u'llhh first directed
some of His followers to settle there
during the days of the most severe
Bahb'i persecutions in Persia.
There in 'IshqBbBd these friends
found a refuge of peace and tranquil-
ity where the Russian government
protected them allowing them the
free exeicise of their faith; thus the
city became in reality as well as in
name the City of Love*.
The BahB'is of 'IshqBbiLd form a
strong element in the life of the place,
and they are highly thmght of and
protected by the government. The Ba-
ha'i Cause was first brought to the pub-
lic notice in 'IshqBbBd some thirty-
five or forty years ago by a martyr-
dom. It was the case of a learned
man of some prominence, who met
his death through receiving wounds
at the hands of two assassins. These
two individuals had been hired to do
the deed by five Moslems, who took
this measure to try to stop the spread
*Ishqabad meens City ot Love.
of the Cause in that city. The Rus-
sian authorities took the matter in
hand and condemned to death all of
the seven men. The BahB'is then pe-
titioned the governor to spare their
lives. He not having authority to do
this, a petition to the same effect was
sent to the Czar, who granted it, and
thus the prisoners were sent in
chains to the mines of Siberia. Here
is but another instance of the growth
of the Cause through persecution, for
from that time on the government
not only allowed the Bahb'is to wor-
ship as they chose, but it protected
them and showed them special favors.
Durin~g all of the governmental
changes in Russia the BahB'is have
continued in safety there since it is
understoo~d that they are obedient
servants of the government and har-
bor no sedition against the law of
the land.
At about the close of the first
decade of the Ministry of the Master
'Abdu'l-BahB, some of the friends in
the Orient arose fired with spiritual
fervor to build the first great Mash-
riqu'l-Adhkar.
Following the guid-
ance of the center of the Covenant,
'IshqBbBd was the place chosen for
this service, and to direct this vast
undertaking HBji MirzB Muhammad
Taqi Afnan one of the most tried and
venerable of the friends of the Cause
was chosen by the Master.
The Master 'Abdu'l-BahB Himself
establishes the style and the general
lines upon which the Temple was
built--namely, that it should be built
upon the plan of a regular nine sided
polygon surrounded by loggias and in
the midst of a garden at the inter-
section of nine avenues, with its
principal entrance facing the Direc-
tion of the Holy Land-the composi-

YEAR BOOK
tion of the building being similar to
that of some of the great temples of
Persia and India.
The services of an engineer and
architect were secured, and the Ba-
ha'is throughout the Orient arose
with fervor to give of their means
toward the building and within a
very few years the building was
completed.
The Mashriqu'l-AdhkLr stands in
the heart of the city; its high dome
standing out above the trees and
house tops being visible for miles to
the travelers as they approach the
town. It is in the centre of a garden
bounded by four streets. In the four
corners of this enclosure are four
buildings. One is the BahP'i school ;
one is the traveler's house, where pil-
grims and wayfarers are lodged; one
is for the keepeiis, while the fourth
one is to be used as a hospital. Nine
radial avenues approach the Temple
from the several parts of the grounds,
one of which, the principal approach
to the building, leads from the main
gateway of the grounds to the prin-
cipal portal of the Temple.
In plan the building is composed of
three sections; namely, the central
rotunda, the aisle or ambulatory
which surrounds it, and the loggia
which surrounds the entire building.
It is built on the plan of a regular
polygon of nine sides. One side is
occupied by the monumental main en-
trance, flanked by minarets-a high
arched portico extending two stories
in height recalling in arrangement
the architecture of the world famous
Taj Mahal at Agra in India, the de-
lilght of the world to travelers many
of whom pronounce it to be the most
beautiful temple in the world. Thus
the principal doorway opens toward
the direction of the Holy Land. The
entire building is surrounded by two
series of loggias-one upper and one
lower-which open out upon the gar-
den giving a very beautiful architec-
tural effect in harmony with the
luxuriant semi-tropical vegetation
which fills the garden.
The principal feature of the inte-
rior is the rotunda beneath the dome,
which latter is the dominant feature
of the exterior. On the main floor
the principal entrance is through the
large doorway, but there are also
several minor doors, which connect
the ambulatory with the loggia. An
abundance of
light is admitted
through the windows in the upper
pontion of the rotunda, as well as
through the windows of the upper
gallery and ambulatory, which open
upon the loggias.
The interior walls of the rotunda
are treated in five distinct stories.
First, a series of nine arches and
piers which separate the rotunda
from the ambulatory.
Second, a
similar treatment with balustrades
which separate the triforium gallery
(which is above the ambulatory and
is reached by two staircases in the
loggias placed one on either side of
the main entrance) from the well of
the rotunda. Third, a series of nine
blank arches filled with fretwork, be-
tween which are escutcheons bearing
the Greatest Name. Fourth, a series
of nine large arched windows. Fifth,
a series of eighteen bull's eye win-
dows. Above and resting on a corn-
ice surmounting this last story rises
the inner hemispherical shell of the
dome.
The interior is elaborately deco-
rated in plaster relief work. The
writer is under the impression that
eventually it is the intention to treat
the interior in colors and gold, but
when he visited 'IshqBbBd an 1901
it was still in the simple white stucco.
The exterior is also done in stucco,
which in that climate resists quite
well the action of the elements. The
walls, which are of brick, are mas-
sively built, while the floors and dome
are of concrete and iron. The whole
structure impresses one by its mass
and strength.

IMPRESSIONS OF HAIFA
The rearing of this temple in the
east has been a great source of
strength to the Bahi'i people the
world round for through thus expres-
sing their unity through sacrificing
to build this temple of God, the Ba-
U'is of the Orient have become
stronger and more united than ever
before. Who ran estimate the effect
that is produced by this building?
It is the cause of great strength and
unity among the Bahi'ls of the world,
being the House of Unity open to all
peoples, it is a haven of rest to many
a soul and a beacon to guide those
who seek the Kingdom of God.
IMPRESSIONS OF HAIFA
BY ALAINE LOCKE
HETHER Baha'i or non-Bahh'f,
concentrate the view upon them-
w .
Haifa makes pilgrims of all who
selves,-this one turns itself into a
visit her. The place itself makes mys- panorama of inspiring loveliness. It
tics of us all,-for it shuts out the
is a fine symbol for a faith that
world of materiality with its own
wishes to reconcile the supernatural
characteristic atmosphere and one in-
with the natural, beauty and joy with
stantly feels one's self in a simple
morality. It is an ideal place for the
and restful cloistral calm. But it is
reconciliation of things that have
not the characteristic calm of the
been artificially and wrongfully put
monastic cloister,-it is not so much
asunder.
a shutting out of the world as an
The shrine chambers of the BBb
opening up of new vistas,-I cannot
and Abdu'l-Baha are both impres-
describe it except to say that its in- sive, but in a unique and almost mod-
fluence lacks the mustiness of ascet-
ern way: richly carpeted, but with
ism, and blends fihe joy and natural- austerely
undecorated
walls and
ness of a nature-cult with the ethical
ceilings, and flooded with light, the
seriousness and purpose of a spir- ante-chambers are simply the means
itual religion.
of taking away the melancholy and
Every thing seems to share the gruesomeness of death and substitut-
custody of the message-the place
ing for them the thought of memory,
itself is a physical revelation. I shall
responsibility and
r e v e r e  n c e .
never forget my first view of it from
Through the curtained doorways, the
the terraces of the shrine.
Mount
tomb chambers brilliantly lighted
Carmel, already casting shadows,
create an illusion which defeats even
was like a dark green curtain behind
the realization that one is in the pres-
us and opposite was a gorgeous cres-
ence of a sepulchre.
Here without
cent of hills so glowing with color,- mysticism
a n  d supernaturalness,
gold, sapphire, amethyst as the sunset
there is dramatically evoked that les-
colors changed,-and in between the
son of the Easter visitation of the
mottled emerald of the sea, and the
tomb, the fine meaning of which
gray-toned house-roofs of Haifa. Al-
Christianity
has
in such large
most immediately opposite and pick-
measure forgotten,-"He is not here,
ia up the sun's reflection like polish-
He is risen." That is to say, one is
ed metal were the ramparts of Akk6,
strangely convinced that the death of
transformed for a few momen%s from
the greatest teachers is the release
its shabby decay in60 a citadel of their spirit in the world, and the
of light and beauty.
Most shrines responsible legacy of their example

BAHA'I YEAR BOOK
The terraced descent from the Tomb of the Bdb and
'Abdx'l-Bahd dowlz Mt. Camel to the sea.

IMPRESSIONS OF HAIFA
bequeathed to posterity. Moral ideas
find their immortality through the
death of their founders.
It was a privilege to see and ex-
perience these things.
But it was
still more of a privilege to stand there
with the Guardian of the Cause, and
to feel that, accessible and inspiring
as it was to all who can come and will
come, there was available there for
him a constant source of inspiration
and vision from which to draw in the
accomplishment of his heavy burdens
and responsibilities.
That thought
of communion with ideas and ideals
without the mediation of symbols
seemed to me the most reassuring and
novel feature. For after all the only
enlightened symbol of a religious or
moral principle is the figure of a per-
sonality endowed to perfection with
its qualities and necessary attributes.
Earnestly renewing this inheritance
seemed the constant concern of this
gifted personality, and the quiet but
insistent lesson of his temperament.
Refreshingly human after this in-
tense experience, was the relaxation
of our walk and talk in the gardens.
Here the evidences of love, devotion
and service were as concrete and as
practical and as human as inside the
shrines they had been mystical and
abstract and super-human.
Shogi
Effendi is a master of detail as well
as of principle, of executive foresight
as well as of projective vision. But
I have never heard details so re-
deemed of their natural triviality as
when talking to him of the plans for
the beautifying and laying out of the
terraces and gardens. They were im-
portant because they all were meant
to dramatize the emotion of the place
and quicken the soul even through the
senses. It was nilght in the quick twi-
light of the east before we had
finished the details of inspecting the
gardens, and then by the lantern
light, the faithful gardener showed
us to the austere retreat of the great
Expoundcr of thc tcaching. It taught
me with what purely simple and
meager elements a master workman
works. It is after all in himself that
he finds his message and it is himself
that he gives with it to the world.
The household is an industrious
beehive of the great work: splendid
division of labor but with all-pervad-
ing unity of heart.
Never have I
seen the necessary subordinations of
organized service so full of a sense of
dignity and essential equality as here.
I thought that in the spirit of such
devoted co-operation and cheerful
self-subordination there was the po-
tential solution of those great prob-
lems of class and caste which today
so affect society. Labor is dignified
through the consciousness of its place
and worth to the social scheme, and
no Bahii' worker, however humble,
seems unconscious of the dignity and
meaning of the whole plan.
Then there was the visit to the
Bahji, the garden spot of the Faith it-
self and to 'Akkh, now a triumphant
prison-shell that to me gave quite
the impression one gets from the
burst cocoon of the butterfly. Vivid
as the realization of cruelty and hard-
ships might be, there was always the
triumphant realization here that op-
posite on the heights of Carmel was
enshrined the victory that had sur-
vived and conquered and now was ir-
repressible. The Bahji was truly ori-
,ental, as characteristically so as Mt.
Carmel had been cosmopolitan. Here
was the eastern vision, full of its
mysticism, its poetry, its spirituality.
Not only was sombreness lacking,
but even seriousnes seemed converted
into poetry. Surely the cure for the
ills of western materialism is here,
waiting some more psychological mo-
ment for its spread,-for its destined
mission of uniting in a common mood
western and oriental minds.
There is a new light in the world:
there must needs come a new day.

BAHA'I YEAR BOOK
KUNJANGUN-THE VILL AGE OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
I
N the heart of the jungle, some
forty or fifty miles from Rangoon,
lies a little Burmese village-Kun-
jangun. Of so little importance is it
to natives and Europeans alike that
no one seems to have heard of it, and
yet one feels confident to say that
this small corner of Burma holds so
dynamic a force that before long it
must make itself felt at a great dis-
tance.
This dynamo of spirit is created by
eight hundred BahB'is living and
working as a unit-a thing thrilling
to the heart and imagination. Pic-
ture this, if you can, in a country so
steeped in the religious superstitions
of the past, and whose people in this
quarter still remain so primitive that
it would appear almost futile to
even carry the great Bahb'i Message
of this age to them. To see this is to
behold a miracle-for has not 'Ab-
du'l-Bahb called it His village?
Seventeen years ago the first seed
was planted by Jinabi Syed Mustafa
Roumie that selfless servant of 'Ab-
du'l-BahA, who has seen this wonder-
ful work grow through submitting
himself entirely to the Master and re-
flecting His love to these people.
It is worth while to repeat the story
as it was heard, of how the first step
was taken, for it shows that if the de-
sire be strong enough to serve the
Cause-in no matter how small a de-
gree-we can make no estimate of
its ultimate goal.
One day in the streets of Rangoon
a man from the jungle was seen run-
ning breathlessly along, looking ut-
terly desperate and a t  the point of
exhaustion. A EahB'i happened to be
passing at this moment and was at-
tentive at once to this poor man's
condition. Asking if he might help,
and to hear something of the cause
of his distress, he was told that the
man was in search of a legal adviser
and had come in a great hurry to the
city-only to find himself at an utter
loss.
The jungle-man had been accused
of a criminal offense by his sister-in-
law, in a passion of jealousy, and
shortly afterward convicted by the
magistrate, who had received a bribe
of two hundred rupees from the
sister-in-law. The Baha'i said that
he would lead the man to one who
would advise him (Syed Mustafa)
and help in any way possible.
On hearing the story Syed Mustafa
said that he knew this magistrate and
they would return together at once to
the jungle. By chance on the river-
boat they met the magistrate, who
was indebted to Syed Mustafa for
past favors, and when asked why he
had convicted this man he said : "But
the courts are at your disposal, do
with them as you will." Syed Mus-
tafa assured him that only justice
was desired and that he himself
would plead this man's case at an-
other trial. This was done and the
accused one freed.
After that several families of Kun-
jangun came to the city at various
times, and were always entertained
by Syed Mustafa. For two years he
was at this service, never during this
time mentioning the Cause. Finally
they asked why he took so much
trouble for them, saying that they
had never met anyone like this be-
fore. Then he told them that he was
a BahB'i, and they asked to be taught,
so that they might become as he was.
There were ten to be taught at
firsGand these ten instructed others,
and so on.
Syed Mustafa visited
them ragularly and helped with all
their affairs. A school was started,

WNJANGUN
then a Mashriqu'l-Adhklr, and later
ground was given them for com-
munity cultivation-the proceeds to
be used for the Cause. There are
sixty-five acres in all and last year
the rice sold from this netted almost
one hundred pounds sterling.
We had a great desire to see this
Bahl'i village and decided to make
the trip, in spite of all the discourage-
ment we received from the English
residents of Rangoon. They told us
of all the hardships of the trip, which
must be made in one day, and as-
sured us that we probably would not
return from the jungle alive and they
knew nothing of the BahB'is and
thought we were a lot of quite mad
Americans bent on sight-seeing.
Syed Mustafa sent a man to Kun-
jangun a day ahead of us bearing
food, cooking utensils, etc., as these
friends are unprepared for visitors
or to do our sort of cooking.
We were up before dayhreak and
on the river by sunrise. The life of
the East begins early, so already the
little ferry was crowded with natives
taking the river journey. They made
a picturesque group-s q u a t t i n g
amongst their gaily colored robes that
rival the sunrise in crimson and
blues.
In our tiny, first-class compart-
ment there were already two men, a
Burman and an American missionary
who had been in the East twenty-one
years. Syed Mustafa lost no time in
giving them the BahB'i Message, and
we wondered how he had contained
himself for two years when getting to
know and understand the people of
Kunjangun !
Mr. Jones, the missionary, was to
meet a co-worker at our stop, Twante,
and then proceed to another village
by the same boat. But we think 'Ab-
du'l-BahB had this trip in hand, and
other things had been planned for
this day.
When we landed, the second mis-
sionary (Mr. Spcar) rushed on board
and told Mr. Jones that plans had
changed and they were both to go to
Kunjangun. We had met Mr. Spear
in one of the shops a few days before,
and when he saw us in this out-of-
the-way place his amazement was
ridiculous. "What," he said, "are
you American ladies doing in this
jungle place-jt
is too curious!"
We asked them to follow in their
car and have luncheon with us and see
our eight hundred Bahb'is--a
still
more unexpected sight.
We were met in a Ford car by two
of the friends and driven to the vil-
lage-twenty-six miles away. What
a marvelous sight to see all our Ba-
h8'i sisters and brothers awaiting us,
dressed in holiday attire of most
colorful materials. Lined up on both
sides of the road as we approached,
their joyous welcome of "Allah-o-
Abha" rang forth.
Such shining
faces and eager curiosity combined
would be difficult to picture.
There were four in our party, and
before tnis the only Western Bahs'i
they had ever seen was Mrs. Schop-
flocher.
Everyone seemed anxious
to be of some service to us, the only
one for the moment being to reach
for our wraps and parasols. They led
us to the school-house (of course, this
was a holiday for the one hundred
and fourteen children who attended),
and grouped themselves about us on
the floor-the men and old BahB'is
taking precedence in front and the
women and children in the rear.
Then they sang Bahl'i hymns to wel-
come us-taught them in Persian by
Syed Mustafa. The rafters rang with
the pure joy afloat; and where the
chorus was caught up by all the men
one could almost see the volume of
sound floating through the open
doors, on through the sun-baked air
to the nearby houses-just as one sees
heat vibrations. Or was it just the
tumult of my heart, and the mist in

~aail'i
YW
BOOK
my eyes, that made the air seem vi-
brant?
Mr. Jones and his friend arrived in
time for luncheon and seemed aston-
ished to find things just as we had
pictured them. They could not be-
lieve until they saw it themselves that
this work had been accomplished
right in their territory-where years
of effort had brought them so little
reward by comparison.
They ap-
peared to be as interested in taking
snapshots of the group as we did, but
for what purpose they did not say.
mean to the villagers, who have had
heretofore bullock carts as their only
means of transportation.
Then we made our farewells and
left, with regret, for the long trip
home. It had been made possible to
remain this long only by the generous
loan of a private steam launch by one
of the Bahi'is of Rangoon, as the last
ferry left Twante long before our ar-
rival there.
Mingled with our joy of this day
was an undercurrent of sadness which
came as we talked to Syed Mustafa
Kun jangun (India) Bahh'is gathered to
Bahic'6 visitors.
meet the American
However, they left with promises to
come again and give talks to our
friends, which will be most useful, as
the Bahi'is are diligently studying
the Bible.
After luncheon we were shown the
village proper-which boasts a court,
jail and hospital.
Most astonishing
of all in this progressive community,
they have now a jitney service of
Ford cars between Kunjangun and
Twante, twenty-six miles distant.
One cannot imagine what this must
on the homeward trip. To quote his
words as nearly as possible will give
the best idea: "I am an old man now
and who will carry on my work?
Any day I may be called and who will
educate these beautiful children? It
breaks my heart to come and see them
and to be able to do so l i t t l e w e  need
teachers and money to help them now.
When you leave don't forget my peo-
ple of Kunjangun."
And who having seen Kunjangun
could forget it!

GREEN ACRE
OLD AND NEW PATHS AT GREEN ACRE
BY MARIAM HANEY
"In the future, God willing, Green Acre shall become a great center, the
cause of the unity of the world of humanity, the cause of uniting hearts, the
cause of binding together the East and the West."
"Should Green Acre follow jirmlg i n  this path and continue the annual
holding of its impartial, universal Conferences,-there is no doubt that
that region will become illumined with the light of unity."-'ABDU'L-BAHh.
REEN ACRE, RE beautiful for sit-
G .
uation," has been the subject of
many a talk, a lecture, an article, in
the past few years, and therefore Ea-
hi'is the world over are more or less
familiar with its history. "Lest we
forget," however, the links in the
story connecting it with the present
day activities let us record once again
those stirring events which have been
the harbingers of the New Day and
which very clearly foreshadowed that
Hour of Unity for which so many
hearts yearned.
Green Acre is situated in Eliot,
Maine, and incidentally, it has put
the otherwise obscure and almost un-
heard of little town on the map of the
world.
It seems truly a place ever
green, as the name implies.
The
fieldls stretch out from the main-
traveled road to the river like a soft
green carpet, with only the one road
running through it from the now
famous Teahouse a t  the entrance, to
the Green Acre Inn situated on a
knoll overlooking the Piscataqua
river (almost lovingly and quite cor-
rectly termed "The River of Light").
Briefly then, Green Acre was
founded by Miss Sarah J. Farmer of
Eliot, Maine, who, after attending the
Congress of Religions at the Colum-
bian Exposition in Chicago in 1893,
conceived the idea of establishing a
Summer School on the property after-
wards named Green Acre, and started
almost immediately to set the wheels
in motion for the organization of such
a school, the object of which should
be to provide a universal platform
for the comparative study of the dif-
ferent religious systems, the various
speakers to expound their views in a
spirit of tolerance toward all.
Miss Farmer was successful be-
yond her fondest hopes, and the
Green Acre yearly conferences be-
came widely known, and attracted to
this unusual gathering place religion-
ists, scholars and others famous in
the world of religion, arts and let-
ters.
Among them was the poet
John Greenleaf Whittier who, upon
one of his visik, said: "We have
heard of 'God's Acres,' but I call this
Green Acre," and thereafter Miss
Farmer used this name.
Thus
began the "Search
for
Truth" in Green Acre; and from
year to year thereafter the programs
changed to coincide with the onward
march of events until it was clear
and evident that what the people
wanted and needed was to find the
Solvent which should unite all in one
Brotherhood.
Miss Farmer, in the course of a
few years, became a BahB'i and re-
alized fully that in the BahB'i Teach-
ings could be found the great Force
and Power which would unite the
people of the world and make of
them one family regardless of race,
creed or color.
In those early pioneering days one
of the events which is enormously
outstanding is the period when Mirza
Ahul Fazl, the distinguished Persian
BahB'i teacher visited Green Acre,

rEAFt BOOK
and gave the teachings of God with
such force and clarity to many a
weary traveler on the path. 'Abdu'l-
BahB has designated him as the
greatest religious teacher of his
time, and those who realized his sta-
tion and capacity felt that it was a
privilege to be taught by him. He
loved all, and served all alike. What
a bounty he was! And how he en-
joyed walking to the pines, there to
give hie illumined tdks to the eager
groups who gathered around him!
Thereafter the pines became known
as the "Persian Pines," and though
it was in the summer of 1904 that our
revered teacher visited Green Acre,
yet those radiant services of his are
ever fresh and fair in the memory.
His season at Green Acre was one of
particular c h a r m and spiritual
growth. Blessed Mirza Abul Fazl!
The writers of the future ages will
record the real story in detail of his
sanctified life of severance and serv-
ice !
But nothing of course can be com-
pared to the season of 1912 when
'Abdu'l-BahB himself visited Green
Acre for one week. "Blessed is the
ground which has been pressed by
his feet." From that time Green
Acre has been considered by some as
holy ground, not in the fanaticd
sense, but because the Lilght of spir-
ituality burned brightly there, be-
cause the Light of the World shed a
radiance beyond the description of
any words, and because the hearts of
all who contacted with this Divine
Servant of God were quickened with
such happiness and love of the King-
dom, and were so spiritually con-
firmed that they were ready to give
up all in service to humanity. He
was the Divine Exemplar who was
himself treading the path of servi-
tude and holiness, and being Perfect
he could direct others to the Perfect
Way. He summoned all to devote
their time to the spirtual reality of
religion, and said; "In Green Acre
you must concentrate your forces
around the one all-important fact,
the investigation of reality. Expend
all your efforts on this, that the union
of opinions and expressions may be
obtained."
From that time down through
these succeding years, many an ad-
vanced soul has at times scaled the
spiritual heights in contemplation of
the precious hours spent with 'Ab-
du'l-BahL in Green Acre; they have
seen once again h,is majestic figure,
and heard his peerless voice ringing
out the Words of God, teaching the
children of men how to attain spir-
itual maturity, how to live the sanc-
tified life.
The old order passed, and the foun-
dation of the new life became ap-
parent to all. Thereafter the Green
Acre conferences were to revolve
around teaching the reality of the
Word of God.
About the year 1912 Miss Farmer
became too ill to serve as the head
and moving spirit of Green Acre,
and soon thereafter it passed into
the possession and under the control
of the Green Acre Fellowship, with
Mr. and Mrs. Wm. H. Randall of
Boston contributing largely of their
resources in every way to furthering
the great plan of this beautiful cen-
ter, and they built wisely and well
around the Principle of the Investi-
gation of Reality.
This period covering some ten or
twelve years, has often
passed
through severe storms and stress,
after which would come invariably
the "clearing." The "Gales of the In-
finite" dissipated the debris of man's
ideas as the winds gather up and
scatter far and wide the sands of the
roads. No one save the Lord himself
is able to measure the mighty works
that have been wrought during these
years.
Many and varied are the
stories that could be written of the

GREEN ACRE
beauty of service at Green Acre; of
The summer of 1921 is also notable,
the many hundreds who have found
for the Teahouse and Gift shop were
themselves at this Center, made holy
opened for the first time. This addi-
by the presence of 'Abdu'l-Bahii and
tion to the life and activities of the
his divine spirit, and who have list- place was planned and arranged by
ened to the message of Life with ears
Mrs. Ruth Randall, who for the past
attuned to celestial anthems, there- four years has successfully managed
after returning to their homes alive
this attractive branch of the work
and keen to continue on the path
and likewise beautified the surround-
which leads to the Goal of all our
ing grounds, making the entrance to
hopes. When these stories are gath- Green Acre most inviting.
ered some day and compiled, they
Gradually from that time to the
will make a book of such interesting
present the growth has been toward
spiritual experiences as will charm
the fulfillment of the prophetic ut-
and truly enlighten those who read
terances of 'Abdu'l-Bahi in regard
it. The readers will likewise be in-
to the future of Green Acre, one of
spired "to investigate reality."
which carries with it a special sig-
Another summer seems particu-
nificance and is here quoted:
larly outstanding as we recall the
"Thy desire to serve Green Acre
many beautiful summers through
is in reality a very important matter.
which we have journeyed to this
This name (Green Acre) must ap-
time, namely the season of 1916, pear with all its significant meaning,
when two important events took
that is, Green Acre must become the
place. One the dedication of Fellow-
reflection of the plain of Acca (spel-
ship House, the gift to Green Acre
led AkkA in the new transliteration),
of Mrs. Helen Ellis Cole of New and attain to the utmost verdancy,
York, a Bahfi'f, a devoted friend and
greenness and artistic beauty. Its
sister to Miss Farmer, and a loyal
charms and wonder lie in this,-that
supporter of the beautiful life and
it may become the center of the Ba-
spirit of Green Acre. And, secondly,
hii'is and the cry of Ya-Bahii'u'l-
Miss Farmer returned after her years Abhi (0
thou the Glory of the Most
of separation because of illness. Her Glorious!) be raised from all its di-
heart was overflowing with grati-
rection."
tude to her Baha'i brothers and sis-
The season of 1924 then is another
ters "who have raised Green Acre to
particularly outstanding one in the
this pinnacle of spiritual unity and
growth and life of Green Acre. At
peace. She had lived to see her early
the annual Fellowship meeting in
dream realized, to see many nations
August of that year the friends
and sects, races and religions joined
gathered together were realizing
together under the Flag of Peace."
more than ever the meaning iand
Soon thereafter she passed into the
deep significance of the law of co-
life eternal and radiant.
operation and co-ordination and en-
Another important season was the
visioned the Greater Green Acre to be
summer of 1920, when Jenabi-Fadil,
brought into the realm of visibility.
a renowned Persian Baha'i teacher
At this meeting Dr. M. A. Cohn of
who had been sent to this country by
Brooklyn, N. Y., thrilled the friends
'Abdu'l-Bahii, taught at Green Acre.
with his suggestion that the Annual
He brought a fresh impetus to the
BahB'i Convention and Congress be
Conferences, and during his stay
held in Green Acre 1925. He said in
there was a very marked spiritual
part:
advancement.
He again served at
"I suggest that we call a great con-
Green Acre in the succeedincg years.
gress in Green Acre for the summer

BAHA'~
YEAR BOOK
Fellowship House, Green Acre, Maine.
Tea House, Green Acre, Maine.

GREEN ACRE
of 1925, inviling all the I3ah6'is of
this country and Canada to meet with
us on this beautiful and consecrated
ground.
This Congress of 1925 if
carried forward in unity, harmony
and love will stand out as a Beacon
Light in the annals of the BahO'i
Cause in this country in general, and
of Green Acre in particular."
But that which furnished the dyn-
amic for action was the instruction
of Shoghi Effendi, Guardian of the
BahO'i Cause which was received in
1924 and contained these stirring
words :
"I was delighted to hear of the
progressive activities of that dearly
beloved spot, Green Acre, upon
which the Master has bestowed His
tender care and loving kindness, and
of which we are all hopeful that it
may become, whilst the work of the
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir is in progress,
the Focal Center of the devotional,
humanitarian, social and spiritual
activities of the Cause."
Thus it was that the friends voted
to hold the Bahi'i Convention and
Congress of 1925 in Green Acre the
first week in July, providing this ac-
tion received the approval of Shoghi
Effendi. All who have read the pre-
ceding numbers of the Star of the
West know that this sanction was re-
ceived in due time, and that the Con-
vention and Congress held this year
brought many new faces to Green
Acre, and it already stands out as a
"beacon light" in the path of prog-
ress.
Now once again we have just had
another Annual Fellowship meetin'g
held at the Green Acre Inn on August
10th.
Mr. Wm. H. Randall, Chairman of
the Board of Trustees of Green Acre,
in his opening address, spoke with
deep feeling, with sincerity, with love
and with a tenderness which touched
all hearts. Among other things he
said :
"All of life seems to follow definite
stages: the infant period, that of
adolescence, and again the period of
maturity.
Miss Farmer was the
great loving mother who brought
into being a child-Green A c r e a n d
with love and tender care she carried
it forward, rearing the foundation
for the future work. When she was
unable to continue, the care of Green
Acre passed into the hands of the Fel-
lowship and a number of Trustees,
and for some ten or twelve years the
affairs of Green Acre have been con-
ducted along this line, until now it
has come to another stage of its
growth, it has come to its maturity.
. . . Green Acre has survived and
g own through its spirit of unity and
and service, and through its spirit of
love. . . . I think now that Green
Acre is approaching another period
of its growth; it must be apparent to
all that new life is coming to this
center and is bringing to it a vision
of new resources and of great growth.
Therefore we should be ready to take
this next step forward in the life of
Green Acre. . . . We grow by unit-
ing ourselvs to the larger needs.
Man progresses from one level of
consciousness to another, and as
growth toward the higher conscious-
ness comes, he sees the higher world,
and that this vision unfolds before
him the plan of God. And so Green
Acre must pass, in spirit anyway,
from a center in itself to a greater
center, and go forward in the unity
of its own greater work. I feel there-
fore that we are going to have a mar-
velous meeting, that we have gath-
ered here with nothing but unity in
our minds, and the desire and pur-
pose of our heart is to unite the
past with the interests of the larger
and greater Green Acre, that in time
to come we may be so proud to be
members of this Fellowship that it
will be our summer happiness to
unite here each year, contributing

Groups around the Peace Flag at Green Acre showing Mr. Randall with hat
in hund and Mr. Schopflocher in the foregrozind directly back of the small boy.
Part of the ''owssy slope" and the ~ i v e r  flowing to the sea.

GREEN ACRE
our part toward the success of this
beautiful spiritual center with its
manifold activities to be developed
year by year, its life of agriculture,
its educational system, its means of
recreation and happiness, indeed we
know the ideals of Green Acre re-
volve around the whole world of hu-
manity for it is an expression of the
Word of God. I welcome you all with
the greatest happiness, and I am
so glad to see some of the faces of
the dear old friends of the days of
Miss Farmer who worked so hard
for Green Acre,-to see them again
sitting in this body uniting with us,
and now confident that the inner life
of Green Acre has been assured."
Mr. Siegfried Schopflocher spoke
in behalf of the Trustees and gave a
brief resume of the work which has
been accomplished. He gave the fol-
lowing heartfelt testimony: "What
has been done is only due to the co-
operation of the members of this
Fellowship without which the Board
of Trustees cannot do anything. It
is the spirit of co-operation and co-
ordination which has brought about
the material and physical improve-
ments in the last few years,-an ex-
pression also of my gratitude toward
Green Acre, for here I have experi-
enced real and loving friendships
which I have never known before,
and I tried to put into the work the
spirit of love and service. There is
no greater mysticism to be experi-
enced I think than that which a man
or woman finds for the first time
when they really contact that true
spirit of loving service which is self-
less and ideal and promoted by the
heart which has been touched with
the love of God; only for the sake of
God do they serve and for the ad-
vancement of His Cause; and this is
my debt to Green Acre. When I first
came here I was presented with a
little booklet which told of the ideals
of this center, and I said: Is it pos-
sible? I thought to myself it in not
possible for such a place to exist!
But I looked around and discovered
it was not only possible, but it was
almost finished, almost accomplished
in truth and in fact. . . . The great
joy is in serving, is in accomplishing,
and today it is in giving a helping
hand to Green Acre. I became ac-
quainted with this universal plat-
form, but I did not know at first ex-
actly what a universal platform
meant.
So I referred to our dear
friend. I thoroughly appreciated the
closer touch and learned more about
the great Truths which were stirring
this group of people into action, and
I came to the conclusion that it was
not the outer Green Acre, even with
its beautiful setting and surround-
ings, but that it was the deep mean-
ing of Green Acre, its ideals, its uni-
versal platform, its deep spiritual
significance, its standards of unity
and human solidarity that I loved so
much and which I have tried to fol-
low, which many succeed in follow-
ing, and all of us will succeed in this
endeavor through co-operation and
selfless service, and it will be our
privilege to lift up others, and see
that they also enjoy this happiness
and the loving friendships. There is
the mysticism of Green Acre, and
there is the true mysticism. There
is the demonstration of the spirit of
love in action.
I t  was this Bahh'i
spirit which attracted me. . . There
is to come before you a resolution
which the Board of Trustees has pre-
pared in absolute unity with the
greatest consideration realizing its
importance.
With the adoption of
such a resolution, we will be able
surely to have the support of all the
Green Acre people of the world, and
which will bring all of us definitely
into relation with Green Acre."
Miss Roushan Wilkinson, Secretary
of the Fellowship, read a comprehen-
sive annual report, clearly setting

sa~li'i YEAR BOOK
forth the proceedings of the last Fel-
lowship meeting and bringing fresh
to the minds the activities of the
year.
Mr. Mountfort Mills, Dr. M. A.
Cohn, Mr. Stanwood Cobb and others
spoke feelingly of the services of all
those who had contributed such a
vital part of the work and of the
possibilities and future plans for the
Green Acre activities.
The resolution referred to by Mr.
Schopflocher provided that Green
Acre should be definitely correlated
to the National Spiritual Assembly
of the BahA'is of the U. S. and Can-
ada, and that it should come directly
under its control and supervision as
soon as all technical points in connec-
tion therewith could be adjusted.
The resolution was joyously accepted
by a large majority and it was
adopted unanimously.
Thus the future of Green Acre is
gloriously assured; somc of the most
stirring prophecies of 'Abdu'l-BahA
have( been fulfilled; and with the
hoisting once again of the beautiful
white Peace Flag on the Green Acre
grounds amid the united prayers and
songs of the assembled friends, there
passed into history one of the most
deeply significant and most glorious
meetings in the whole life of Green
Acre, for the decisions arrived a t  sig-
nify the expansion of Green Acre
eventually into a beautiful "City of
God"'-for such it will be when every
activity is for the sake of God, and
cvtry man, woman and child is listen-
ing with the ear of the spirit to the
inner voice which calls to prayer, to
unity to "living the life" of a real
Brotherhood,-a life which functions
in and for God, and which can be
led by the spirit because filled with
the spirit.

C(rL
.- FOR WORLD UNITY
A CONFERENCE FOR WORLD UNITY AT SAN FRANCISCO,
MARCH 20-22, 1925
C
IVILIZATION emerged from its
cradle somewhere in Asia and
started on its march following the
sun around the world. It gathered
its arts, religimons, wars and languages
as it journeyed into Northern Africa
and Southern Europe. It built cities,
organized states and went on in its
cycles of failure and success. North-
ern Europe and the British Isles soon
became the abode of a culture. The
final episode of this encirclinsg move-
ment was the colonization of the
American continents. Now the great
western outpost of this moving civi-
lization is at the Golden Gate of Cali-
fornia. Across the Pacific we again
meet some of the oldest organized
social groups. The elder brothers,
Mongol, Malay and Aryan Sr., along
with their numerous friends and
relatives, are somewhat disturbed at
the remarkable activity, egotism and
blustering of the young runaway
Aryan Nordic, Jr., yet they are wil-
ling to listen to his story of adven-
ture.
They have heard rumors to
the effect that he has been very quar-
relsome with his cousin Slav.
He
seems to be somewhat erratic like an
adolescent youth.
At times he is
highly idealistic, sometimes cruel,
often selfish, yet at times showing
signs of great generosity.
The 'great meeting place of the
civilizations of the world is on the
shores of the Pacific. This thought
has been in the minds of the social
students who have been observing
the meeting of the Orient and the
Occident. Early in April the idea of
making San Francisco the center for
a conference that should be organ-
ized for the purpose of promoting a
better inter-racial, inter-religious and
international understanding and co-
operat;ion was conceived.
Through
the untiring efforts and irresistible
enthusiasm of Mrs. Charles Miner
Cooper these ideas began to crystal-
ize into a very definite plan. A brief
survey revealed the fact that many
prominent workers in the field of
international relations could be found
in this region and that there was a
wealth of material that should be
made available to the public.
Mrs.
Cooper, in her spirit of service, gen-
erously contributed time and money
to bring this conference into exist-
ence.
She invited an interested
group to meet with her, and out of
this meeting a committee on arrange-
ments was organized, consisting of
the following members: Dr. Rudolph
I. Coffee, chairman; Professor Ken-
neth Saunders, Professor J. V. Breit-
wieser, Mrs. Kathryn Frankland,
Mrs. Ella Goodall Cooper and Mr.
Leroy C. Ioas, secretary.
As the result of the work of the
committee, a "Conference for World
Unity" was organized and an inter-
esting program was given before
large and enthusiastic audiences.
The first address, by Professor
Kenneth Saunders, dealt with India's
contribution to World Peace. Pro-
fessor Saunders has been an intense
student of the influence of Oriental
thought and philosophy on the civili-
zation of the world, and in a very
scholarly manner presented the ideals
of peace, contentment and non-re-
sistance as they are taught by the
Hindoo writers and philosophers.
Dr. Ng Poon Chew, the genial
editor of Sai Yat Po, pointed out

that the old China had been a peace-
ful nation "that was wont to sit in
isolation musing :
"Far from the maddening crowd's ignoble
strife,
Her sober wishes never learned to stray.
Along the cool sequestered vale of life,
She kept the even tenor of her way."
But a new China is coming, a new
China is in the making, a new China
with new life, new spirit, and new
blood. A new China with new ambi-
tion, with new inspiration and with
new aspiration; a new China with
new ideas, new ideals, and new con-
ception of world relations; a new
China awakened to the consciousness
of her potential power of her four
hundred fifty million living souls; a
new China jealous. of her rights,,
smarting under the consciousness of
wrong inflicted upon her by the
powers in the past."
He pointed out that if China is to
be made the pawn of European greed
and agression, she may become the
fertile ground in which to sow the
seeds of war.
"On the other hand, if the nations
of the world will change their policy
in their treatment of China. and
adopt justice and equity in place of
might and greed, the result will be
peace and amity and good-will among
the nations for ages to come."
Some of the gifts western civiliza-
tion has brought to China are stand-
ing armies and national debts, un-
known to Chinese people before 1842.
The audience was thrilled at its
good fortune in seeing and hearing
the honorary-chairman of the meet-
ing, Dr. David Starr Jordan, who
presented in perseon the Essentials
of his Peace Plan. In the words of
the resolution adopted by the Senate
and Assembly of the State of Cali-
fornia, Dr. Jordan's contributions to
world unity can be described as
follows :
"Whereas, Through the genernsity
of Mr. Raphael Herman, a prize of
$25,000.00 was offered, under the
auspices of the World Federation of
Education Associations, for the best
plan to accomplish this purpose; and
"Whereas, Fsom over 6,000 plans
submitted the prize was awarded to a
Californian, Dr. David Starr Jordan,
Chancellor
Emeritus of Stanford
University; and
"Whereas, The citizens of Santa
Clara County, the home of Dr. Jor-
dan, have arranged to give him a
public reception on Tuesday, April
14, at San Jose, in recognition of his
constructive services in the cause of
world peace; therefore be it
"Resolved, By the Senate of the
State of California, the Assembly
concurring, that we extend felicita-
tions to Dr. Jordan on this signifi-
cant occasion.
"We join in honoring Dr. Jordan-
the Man-the California Citizen-
the World Citizen.
"As a man he has come to be uni-
versally recognized as possessing
those qualitites of heart and mind
that we regard as the ideal of Amer-
ican character.
"As a citizen of California his
years of labor in his own chosen pro-
fession and in the advancement of
the state's welfare, have placed the
young men and women of California,
and the entire state, under obliga-
tion that can never be fully voiced.
"As a world citizen, his broad vi-
sion and his humanitarian impulse
have induced him to devote years of
study to this greatest of international
problemsthe
riddance
of
this
mighty scourge of war, and the even-
tual achievement of international
amity and good-will."
On the second evening of the meet-
ing Dr. Aurelia Henry Reinhardt,
President of Mills College, pointed
out how most of the differences of
mankind are due to ignorance and

CONFERENCE FOR WORLD UNITY
misunderstanding.
She urged
a
broader, deeper study of humanity
for the sake of a broader and more
permanent happiness.
Dr. W. J. J. Eyers, who represented
the negro race in the conference,
spoke of the numerous attitudes and
situations in society which have
caused hardship and misery to his
people. He proclaimed a faith in the
capacity of the negro race to carry
its share of the burdens of humanity,
and the willingness of the negro peo-
ple to render Cheir share of service.
The closing address, by the Honor-
able Clinton N. Howard, was a plea
for the realization of the peaceful
elements in Christ's teaching.
He
pointed out how warlike elements
had been injected into many of our
songs, sermons and rituals.
He
called for the introduction of peaceful
elements.
The climax of the meetings was
probably reached in the addresses of
the Honorable Torao Kawasaki and
Jinab-i-Fadil on the third evening,
the former speaking on Japan's Con-
tribution to World Peace and the lat-
ter on the Conquest of Prejudice.
The address by the able represen-
tative of the Japanese people made
such a profound impression on the
audience that the speaker has been
kept busy repeating the address to
many clubs in the San Francisco Bay
region. He presented the stand of
Japan in all of the conferences for
world peace. He assured the audi-
ence that his country is ready to co-
operate with all of the other great
nations in coming to an understand-
ing by peaceful methods in the set-
tling of all disputed questions. He
pointed out that Japan had already
gone through her text books and re-
organized them so as to teach their
children thc ways of peace. He de-
plored the work of jingoists and false
prophets who would develop hatred
and strife.
Then came the scholarly and gentle
Jinab-i-Fadil, so well qualified to
unify the ideas presented in all the
addresses. His deep sympathy with
and knowledge of all humanity was
soon recognized by all who were
present. In simple, clear language he
pointed the way to real peace, to
final unity. This address was a fit-
ting unification of the thoughts that
had been gathered together in the
conference for world unity.
The closing address of the confer-
ence was given by Dr. Rudolph I.
Coffee, who traced the ideas and
ideals of peace through the proph-
ecies of Old Testament times, the
writings of the philosophers and
the social consciousness of the pres-
ent time.
He subsequently expres-
sed the hope that conferences of this
kind may be held every year and
that an organization will be main-
tained looking forward to definite
objectives and plans for the next
meeting.
Musical numbers added to the
beauty of the program and the pleas-
ure of the auditors. They were all
artistically rendered and enthusias-
tically received.
When the era of peace on earth
shall have become a reality; when the
Fatherhood of God and the brother-
hood of man shall have become the
creed of humanity; when the harsh
reverberations of the din of war shall
have died in the past,-this Confer-
ence for World Unity will be num-
bered as one of the incidents, as a
part of the contributions that made a
more universal happiness possible.

PART THREE
I. National Spiritual Assemblies.
11. List of leading local Bahi'i centers.
111. BahL'i Periodicals.
IV. Bibliography.
V. References to the BahB'i Movement.
VI. European and American cities visited by 'Abdu'l-Bahi.
VII. Transliteration of Oriental terms frequently used in
Bahb'i literature.
VIII. Dr. J. E. Esslelnont.

Floral emblem of red roses at Major Znzbrie's
funeral, sent by the National Spiritual As-
sembly in the name of the BUM'& of Persia
and America.

BAHAI YEAR BOOK
PART THREE
NATIONAL SPIRITUAL ASSEMBLIES
The Natianal Spiritual Assembly of the
Balui'is of Persia.
Care The Secretary, Mirrl 'Ali-Akbar
Milani.
Care M i r d  Ghullm-'AJi Ihavachi,
Avenue Nasiriyyih, Teheran, Persia.
The National SpirLual Assembly of the
BaM'is of
the United States and
C a d .
Care The Secretary, Mr. Horace Holley,
48 West 10th St., New York City,
U. S. A.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahb'is of Germany.
Care the Secretary, Mrs. Consul Schwarz
3 Alexandersstrasse,
Stuttgart, ~ e r :
many.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahri'is of Great Britain and Ireland.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bal~b'is of Egypt.
Care The Secretary, 'Ahdu'l-Jalil,
Bey
Sa'ad.
Care Muhammad EffendS Taqi Isfahini,
Rue Marjdsh, Cairo, Egypt.
The National Spi~ltual Assembly of tk
Bahd'is of Turkistbn,
Care The Secretary, Mahmid-Zldih.
Care Mr. Z. Asphlr-Zldih,
96 Houndsditch, London, E. C. 2, E n p
land.
The National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahd'is of Caucasus.
Care The Secretary, Mirzi Rahim KB-
zim-Zldih.
Care The Secretary, Mr. Geo. Simpson,
Care Mr. Z. Axhlr-Zldih,
58 North End Road, Golder's Green,
96 Houndsditeh, London, E. C. 2, Eng-
London, N. W., England.
land.
The Natioml Spiritual Assembly of the
Bahb'is of India and Burma.
The National S?n'ritaal Assembly of the
C~are The Secretary, Mr. Hishmatu'lllh.
Bahb'is of 'Irhq.
Care Mr. N. R. Vakil, Havadia Chakla,
Care The Secretary, Mr. Munir Vakil,
Surat, India.
Siqi'l Maydan, Baghdad, Irlq.
LEADING LOCAL BAHA'f CENTERS
Tha Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd'is of
The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd'is of
ConstantinopJe.
Beirut, Syria.
Care The Secretary, Mirzl Jalll Ahma-
Care The Secretary, Mr. Ali-Akbar Khu-
doff Milini
rasani:
P. 0. Bdx 410, Stamboul, Constan-
Care Dr. SulaymPn Raf'at Bey,
tinople, Turkey.
Ra'si'n-Nahi'
(Ras-El-Nabeh) , Beirut,
The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd'is of
Syria.
Paris.
The BaM'is of Austmlia.
Care Mr. and Mrs. Dreyfus-Barney,
Care Miss Amy Thornton,
16 Rue Greuze, Paris, France.
428 Punt Road, South Yarra, Mel-
The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahb'is of
bourne' Australia.
Haifa, Palestine.
The Bahri'is of New Zealand.
Care The Engli'sh Secretary, MirzP Badi'
Care Miss Margaret Stevenson
Bushrd'i,
"Clunie," 3 Cowie Road, ~ a r n h l ,
Auek-
Persian Colony, Haifa, Palestine.
land, New Zealand.
The Spiritual Assembly of the Bahd'is of
The Bahd'is of Switserland.
Alexamdretta, Syria.
Care Mrs. J. Stannard,
Care The Secretary, Mr. Hasan Klshini,
19 Boylevard Georges-Favon, Geneva,
P. 0. Box 25, Alexandretta, Syria.
Switzerland.

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
The Bahd'is of Japan.
The Bahd'is of Italu,
Care Mr. Sanuo Nisawa,
Care Mrs. E. R. Mathews
40 B. Sonnomiya Nichume, Kobe, Ja-
Villa San Martino, ~ r t b f i n o  (Mare),
pan.
Italy.
The Bahd'is of the Hawaiian Islands.
The BahB,is of
Afrim.
Care Mrs. J. G. Augur
435 Beretania ~treLt, Honolulu, Ha-
C
a
~
~
O
~
~
~
,
"

$,",":;,I
Assembly,
waii Island's.
Arcadia. Pretoria, S. Africa.
The Baha'is of China.
Care Mfrzi H. A. Ouskudi,
The Bahd'is of Brazil.
41 A. Kiangse Road, Shanghai, China.
Care Mi= Leonora Hfolsapple
The Bahri'is of Austria.
Baixa da Graea 26, E+ahia,'~razil.
Cara Herr F. Pollinger
Grillparzerstrasse 14,' Wien, Austria. T:afieag2,
:,,,"I","';,
Boviken, Sweden.
The BuM'is of Rw.asia.
Care Mr. Dhabihu'llih Ndmddr,
The Bahd'is of Tunis.
Care Mr. Z. Asghal-Zddih, 96 Hound*
Care Shaykh Muhyi'd-Din
care M. T.
dltch, E. C. 2, London, England.
Isfahdni, Rue Marjdsh, 'Cairo, Egypt.
International Bureau BahB'i,
19 Boulevard Georges-Favon,
Geneva, Switzerland.
Local Bahd'i Assemblies in the United
Baha'i Groups in the United States and
States and Canada
Carzada
Canada: Montreal.
Santa Barbara, Cal.; San Diego, Cal.; St.
California:
Berkeley, Geyserville,
dale,
Hollywood
(+
Angeles) ,
F~ancisco, Oakland, Vlsaha.
Colorado: Denver.
Connecticut: New Raven.
Distriet of Columbia: Wa*-hington.
Florida: Miami.
Georgia: Augusta.
Hawaiian Islands: Honolulu.
Illinois: Chicago, Urbana.
Maine: Eliot (Green Acre).
Maryland: Baltimore.
Glen-
San
Massachusetts: Boston, Springfield, Wor-
cester.
Michigan: Lansing, Detroit, Muskegon.
Minnesota: Duluth, Minneapolis.
Missouri: St. Louis.
Montana: Helena.
New Jersey: Newark.
New York: Buffalo, New York Citr, Yon-
kers, Geneva.
Ohio: Akron, Cleveland, Cincinnati.
Oregon: Portland.
Pennsylvania:
Philadelphia, Wttsbulrgh.
Washington: Seattle.
Wisconsin: Kenosha, Milwaukee, Racine.
John, N. B., Canada; St. Auguatine, Fla.;
Atlanta, Ga.; Maui, T. Hawaii; Peoria,
Ill.; Springfield, Ill.; Indianapolis,, Ind.;
Keokuk, Iowa; Beverly, Mass.; Haver-
hill, Mass.; Somerville, Mass.; Fruitport,
Mich.; St. Paul, Minn.; Omaha, Neb.;
Asbury Park, N. J.; Jersey City, N. J.;
Montclair, N. J.; Johnstown, N. Y.; Ith-
aca, N. Y.; Itochesrter, N. Y.; Dayton,
Ohio; Sandusky, Ohio; Spokane, Wash.;
Vancouver, B. C., Canada.
Foreign Bahb't Centers
Aus.tria:
Graz, Vienna.
Australia:
Adelaide, Melbourne, Perth,
Sydney, South Yarra.
Caucasus: h k u ,  Tiflis, Ganjih, Batum,
Saliyan,
BQlA-Khdn& NaftiEn, h r -
hand, Kdk-chiy, Shakki, Burda',
Egypt: Cairo, Port Said, Alexandria, Is-
ma'iliyyih, Assiut.
England: Londfon, Bouxnemouth, Manches-
ter.

B A H L ~ ' ~
CENTERS
G e m n y :  Berlin-Charlottenburg, Berlin-
S c h n  en e b erg, Berlin-Schmargendorf,
Dresden, Esslingen, Fellbach, Fre~hurg,
Freundendrudt,
Gera-Reuzs,
G r o s s-
Strehlitz, Goppingen, Hamburg,
Heil-
bronn, Jena, Karlsruhe, Krewzweg, Lau-
dan, Leipzig-Ghoholis, Neuenburg, Reutlin-
gen,
R o s h k ,
Schorndod,
Schwerin,
Stuttgart, Warnemunde, Zuffenhausen.
India (and Burma) : V. Daidanaw-Kala-
zoo, Bombay, Calcutta, Karachi, Kunjan-
gun, Poona, Mandalay, Rangoon, Surat.
New Zeaknd : Auckland.
Palestine: IEaifa, 'AkkL.
Mesopotamia: Baghdad, Avashiq, Hunay-
dar, Basrih.
Switzerland: Lausanne, Gcneva.
Syria: Alexandretta, Beirut, Aleppo, Da-
mascus.
Tasmania : Hobart.
Turkey: Adana, Canstantiuople.
TurkistLn: 'IshqaMd, Tbshkand, Qahqahih,
Marv, Tajan.
Italy: Rlome, Florence, Como.
Persia: Tihran, Qazvin,
Rasht, Zanjin,
Yazd, Slhahr6d, Q6chan, Tabriz, Ham-
adin, KirminshLh,
Sultin-AbPd-i-IrAq,
Sari, SahzivLr, Birjand, Qum Klshdn,
Isfahan, Shirlz, SimnBn, Nishapdr, Si-
sin,
BurG-jird,
KirmLn,
Raf~injdn,
Abadih, Bandar-'Ahbas, Mashhad, Najaf-
AbPd.
MAGAZINES
Published by Bahi'i Institutions
The Bahd'i MagazineStar of the West.
The World Fellowship Magazine and The
Printed in Chicago far many years: re-
Magazin,e of the Child~en of the King-
cenbly moved t o  Washington. S t a n m d
dom
(combined)-Pwblishcd
a t  Mont-
Cobb, Editor; Mariam H a n e ~ ,  Associate
clair, N. J., and edited under the direc-
Editor; Allen B.
KcDaniel, Business
tion of Victoria Bedikian and Ella Ro-
Manager.
Address:
106 Otis Building,
harts. Addremss: P. 0. Box 179, Mont-
Washington, D. C.
Per year, $3.00.
clair, N. J.
Die Sonne dsr Wahrrheit--Official
mana-
zine of the BehL'is of Germany.
Pub-
liehed a t  Stuttgart. Frau Alice Schwarz,
Editor.
Address: Alexanderstrasse
3.
Per year, $2.00.
T I L ~
Dawn-A monthly Baha'i Journad of
Burma.
Edited and published by Syed
Mustafa Boumie.
Contents in English,
Persian and Burmese. Address:
No.
2-B, 418t Street, Rangoon, Burma.
Per
year, $2.00.
The Herald of
the S o u t k T h e  Bahi'i
magazine for New Zealand and Austra-
lia.
Address:
Care Hyde Dunn, Box
3116 G. P. O., Sydney, Australia.
La Nova Tago (The New Day)-The In-
ternational Baha'i-Esperanto Magazine,
published four times a year by the Es-
peranto Committee of the BahP'i Assem--
bly of
Hasnburg, Germany.
Address:
Friedrich Gerstner, Oelmuhlenweg 66,
Wandsbek (H'amburg), Germany.
Per
ysar, 20 cents'.
Bahd'd Weltzemeinschaft-Publi5hd
quar-
terly by the Committee on Education of
the National Spiritual Assembly of the
BahL'is of Germany.
Bahb'd News Letter-The bulletin of the
Nationa,l Spiritual As~semhly of the Ba-
ha'is of the United Skates and Canada.
Das Rosengaertlei%Publjshed
for children
by the Committee on
Education of
the National Spiritual Assembly of the
Bah&'i,s of Germany.
Mitteilungen-The
bulletin of the BahP'i
Asmsembly of Hamburg, Gemany.
Khurshid-d-KMwar -
Magazine
published
by the BahB'i Spiritual Assembly of
'Ishqibid, Turkistan.

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
Bahfli Students at Beirut, Syria, University.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
BAHA'f BIBLIOGRAPHY
PART ONE
Books and pamphlets published under Bahh'i auspices or approved by a responsible Ba-
h8'i body.
LIST ONE
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-BahB (comuiled bv Albert
Publications of the Publ~ivhing Commit-
~
~
y
~
~
*
q
~
~
~
&%ed-i%,,ing
tee of the American National Spiritual As
Yidual,s ,and groups.
volume T
~
~
.

(vol-
sembly. (Corrected to February 1, 1926.)
umes One and Three temnorarilv out of
~~-
- -
~ - - - ~
WRITINGS OF BAHA'U'LLAH
print) ------------_._
-----.
"--.$1.75
Hidden Words, the essence of the teachings
of all the Prophets. Translated by Shoghi
Effendi. Paper covers -___--------
$ .25
In 'leather _.--.--..___-__-------
1.00
The Book of Assurance (Book of Iqan),
explaining the oneness of all the Pra-
uhets and their sipnificance as the ex-
Mysterious Forces of Cizr;lization, a work
addressed to the people of Persia nearly
forty years ago to show the way to true
progress .-.--..._-_------.---
$1.75
Divine Philosophy
(compiled by Isabel
Fraser Chamberlain), selected addresses
delivered in Paris on the eve of the Great
--
. --
iression of the win of G
O ~
__.._-.
$1.50
War --------------.--------
$ .75
Tablets of Bahoi'u'lldh (TarLzit, the Tah-
let of the Worla, Kalimit, Tajalliyat,
Bishirit, IshrBqit), social and spiritual
principl~s of the new age -_..----
$1.75
Three Tablets of BahB'u'lloih (Tablet of
the Branch, Kit4.b-i-'Ahd, Lawh-i-Aqdas),
the appointment of 'Abdu'l-Bahi as the
interpretm of the teachings of Bahi'u'-
llih, the Testament of Bashi'u'llah, and
his memage ito the Christians_._-.$
.25
Seven Valleys, the stages passed by travel-
ers on the path of spiritual prog-
ress -_.__-.__-...--..-.---------
$ .25
Prayers, containing also Prayers by 'Ab-
du'l-Baha -------------------.--.
$ 2 0
Szirat ul-Hwkal, on the myr~tery of the
manifestation of the Spirit in the hu-
man temple. (Out of print.) .._.--
$ .50
WRITINGS OF 'ABDU'L-BAH~
The Promulgation of Universal Peace (com-
piled by Howard MacNutt), public ad-
dresses delivered throughout the United
Sltates in 1912.
This work contains
'Abdul-Bahi's spiritual niessage t o  the
Amelrican peaple, whom he summoned to
establish the "Most Great Peace," which
is the consummation of the iaeaeals of all
religionists,
scientists and hnmanitar-
ians. In two volume6, per vo1.__-- $2.50
The Wisdom of 'Abdu'l-BaM (compiled by
Lady Blomfield, and published in London
under the title of "Paris Talks"), a
brief hut comprehen&ive presentation of
his mesisage. Paper covers .-------
$ .40
In cloth ---.------------..-----.
1.00
Some Answered Questions (compiled by
Laura Clifford B,arney), an exposition of
fundamental spiritual and philosophic
problems
$2.00
Chapter m Strikes, a supplement to the
above ..-.--..----..-.----------.$
.05
'Abdz~'GBahoi in New Y w k ,  containing se-
lected a d d r w e s  delivered a t  Columbia
University and various churches and
public meetings in 1912 ._---..__--
$ .25
Tablet to The Hague, a Lehter written in
1919 to che Central Organization for a
Durable Peace --____.__..-.--
$ .05
Wisdom. Talks of 'Abdu'l-Eahci, selected
addresses on
spiritual and scientific
subjects delivered in Chicago during
---------_..______----.----$
.10
Prayers and Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahoi col-
lected and translated by Shoghj Ef-
fendi ---.-..-----------.-.---
$ .15
COMPILATIONS
B&'i
Scriptures (compiled by Horace Hol-
ley), selected from all available writings
of
Bnhi'u'llih
and 'Abdu'l-BahB
and
arranged in nine chapters according
to subject; with Glossary and Index.
576 pages
No. s Compilation, available in different
languages, 16 pages ___-------._..
$ .03
Miniature
No.
Compilation,
copies
-----------.--------------$l-OO
The Bahd'i Message, 20 pages -----.-
$ .05
R:oial A?1Yity. Words of Bahh'u'll8h and
Abdu'l-Bahi
on the subject of
har-
mony and underetanding between the
races.
Compiled by M. H. and M. M.
wibh speed1 reference %Q conditions in
the United States. 20 pages ------ $ .05

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
Jenab'i-Fadil at Santa Paula, Califorma.

The Divine Avt of Living, words of 'Ab-
dul-Bahi on the acquisition of spir~tual
qualities, compiled by Mrs. Mary Rabh.
Published by Brentano's .--___.....
$1.25
PART TWO
BOOKS ABOUT THE B A H ~ ' ~
MOVEMENT
Letters from Shoghi Effendi, selectiol~s
frm leltters written by the grandson
af 'Ah~dul-Bahi, appointed Guardian of
hhe Cause by him, regarding details of
administering the affairs of the Move-
m m t  -------.----------.-- tttttt$
.20
Episodes in My Life, by Munirih Khbnum,
wife of 'Abdu'l-Baha, a witness to the
providential spirit directing the Baha'i
Cause in it. most trying days#-----$ .35
The Bahd'i Proofs, by Mirzi Abu'l-Fad1 ob
Gulpaygan, presenting the fundamental
woods of the validity of the Canse as:
the Universal Religion, with chapters
relating the lfves of
the
Bab, Ba-
bP7u'llah and
Abdu'l-BahP.
(Out of
print) ----...-----......__--...-
$1.50
The Brillianf: Proof, by Mirzb Abu'l-Fad1
of Gulpaygan, a refutation of an attack
on the Cause by a Protmtant mission-
ary. Contains b ~ t h
English and Persian
Bahd'u'lldh and His Message, by J .  E. Es-
slermlont, briefly outlining the spiritual
message of the new day ___-__---__
$ .05
Addresses by Jindb-i Fbdd, a series of lec-
tures by a Persian scholar appointed by
'Abdul-Blah& to teach the principles of
the BahP'i Canse in this country. Vols.
4 and 5 mly. Per volume ---------- $.l5
Lessoan in. Religion, by Shaykh Muham-
mad-'Ali Qb'ini, prepared especially for
children.
Translated by Edith Rookie
Sanderson -.--.-_.___-__--.
$ .75
The Oriental Rose, by Mary Hanford Ford,
a vivid presentation of histo~ical mpeebs
of the Babb'i Movement .-..-----.
$ .80
Universal
Consciousness
of
the Bahd'i
Religion, by Mas,on Remey, a new and
enlarged edition of the pamphlet pre-
viously published under the title of
"The New Day." 60 pages --.--.-
$ '  .20
50 copies --.--.....__..___..--.
$ 9.00
100 copies ---.-_....__-_--_._
$16.00
Twelve Articles Introductory to the Study
of the Bahh'i Teachings, by Mason
kemey
including
chapters
on
the
foundells d the Movement, the writings,
bhe organization, relation to the Re-
ligions of the Or-ent, wo,rship, ek. 182
pages (cloth) .._._._____.....--.
$ .60
10 copies -.-.---.-.-$
4.00
Bahd'i: The Spirit of the Age, by Horace
H~olley, preseilting the Baha'i Movement
and teachings ad the synthesis of all
modern movements _..._..-..-.--
$2.50
Dawn of Knowledge and the Most Great
Peace, by Paul Kingston Dealy, bhe Ba-
ha'i C~ause and anmcient prophecy-3 .25
The Bahd'i Movement: Its Spiritual Dy-
no.mic, by A l ~ e r t  Vail, reprint of a maga-
mne article
$ .10
Martyrdomts in Persia in 1903, by Haji
Mirzi Haydor-'Ali, relating the circnm-
stances in whi~zh seventy Persian Ba-
ha'is were martyred .__..-..-...-
$ .15
The Call of God, by Go'rge Latimer, +he
sign~lficance of the return of the Messen-
ger .-.--.--.-..------.-...-$
.05
What Went Ye Out for to See? by Thorn-
don Chase, a letter written in reply to
an inquiry from a Christian _.._._
$ .05
The Bahd'i Religim, a raprint of the two
Baha'i
papers presented a t  the Con-
ference on Some Living Religions with-
in
the
British
Empire.
Paper,
pasges ---.-----------..-----
$ .15
'Abdu'l-Baha's First Days in America, in-
timate and beautiful glimpses of the
Master, from 8he dSary of Juliet Thounp-
son, 40 pages.
Printed by The Roy-
crofters .-.--___.-_-_____-------- $1.00
God's Heroes, by Laura Clifford Barney, a
drama written around the great Baha'i
heroine and martyr, the poetess Qur-
ratu'l-'Ayn. Illuminated in Persian style.
Cloth, 106 pages --__--_------.--
$3.00
The Mashriqu'l-Adhkdr and the Bahd'i
Mozremev~t, by Jean Masson, explaining
&e idpificance of &a Baha'l H o w  of
Warship ---------------------
$ .I0

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
Th.e ReaXtv of ReliLrioa, a Tablet of 'Ah-
du'l-B~ahi. 4-page leaflet. 12 fo:__$ .lo
100 for .........................
$ .75
The Source of Spiritual Qualitks, f r m
worde of BahP'u'llah.
4-page leaflet. 12
for __.--___-_..-_-._--....----.-
$ .10
100 for ---..-..---------..-..-.-$
.75
The Bahri'i Cause, eight-page pamphlet
prepared by the National Teaching Cam-
mittee for general distribution, with l i d
of BahB'i Assemblies. Sold $n lots of
one hundred only ..____.._..___..
$1.00
Photograph of 'Abdu'l-Bahd, photo-engrav-
ing on good quality paper suitable for
framing -..-..--.----..-..--.-..
$ .10
The Mashriqu'LAdhkdr (B,ahP'i House of
Worship) colored lithograph of the de-
sign
by
Louis
Bourgeois,
nine
by
twelve inahes .--..---.---..---..
$ .I5
Framed, under gla~ss __.-_..-____.
$1.50
The Mashriqu'kAdhlcdr, photo-engraving of
design by Louis Bourgeois, on good
Bn'ef A~aeovwf of the Rohri'i Mownmenf by
Ethel J. Rosenberg. Published by B-
side, Ltd.
The Splendour of God, by Erie Haaumond.
One of the Wisdom of the East series.
Published by John Murray.
The
Universal Religion,
by Hippolyte
Dreyfus, an introductory work on the
Baha'i Cause by a French orientalist
who has translated many of the writings
of BahB'u'llPh.
The Modern Social Religion, by Horace
Holley. Puhlished by Sidgwick & Jack-
son. (Out of print.)
Bahd'u'ildh
and The New Eva, by J. E.
Esslemont.
(See List one.)
Published
by George Allen & Unwin, Ltd.
What I s  a Bahh'i? by J. E. Easlemont, a
reprint of Chapter three of his larger
work. Published by Burnside, Ltd.
The Baha'i Faith, by G. Palgrave Simp-
son.
quality paper suitable for framing.-$ .lo
The Passhg of 'Abdn'l-Bahri.
(See List
ed lithograph
one.)
The Dream of God, .a poem by Albert Dur-  he Life and ~eachi&s of Abbas~ffendi,
rant Watson -_---------.-_---..-
$ .lo
by Myron H. phelps.
published by put-
The. Behri'i Benediction, music and words
& Sons' (Out '*
print')
by Louise R. Waite. Per dozen----$
.20
God's
Heroes, by Laura Clifford Barney.
A Birdseye View of the World in the Year
(See List One.)
s,ooo, hy Orrol Ha~per. Reprinted tram
Unity Trium~hant, by Elizabeth Herrick.
the
~ ~ h p i
~
~
~
~
~
i
~
~
:
star of
the
The Revelation of BahB'u'llah
as the
W e t  .
.

$ 0 5
fulfillment of Christianity, with exten-
sive quotations and bibliography. Pub-
Views of the Holy Land, a portfolio of
lished by Kegan, Paul.
x ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ & ~ $ " , " " ~ ~ $ ~ ~ ~ ~ ( ~ ~ , " " $ ~ ~
Bahri'i: The SpMt of the Age, by Horace
ble in s~heets only.)
Originally---.$1.00
gz2:
List One.)
by
LIST TWO
Some Answered Questions. (See List one.)
PubYshed by Kegan, Paul.
HixEden Words of Bahd'u'lfih.
(See List
one.)
'Abdu'l-Bahd in London. Adh-esses deliv-
ered by 'Abdn'l-Baha during his visit
in London, with description of his life
and activities.
Paris Talks. (See List one, "The Wisdom
of
LAbdu'l-BahB.")
Puhlished
by
G.
Bell & Son.
The Mysterious Forces of
Civilization.
(See List one.)
A Travellm's Narrative,. The Episode of
the Bab translated by Prof. E. G. Browne,
M. A,, F. B. A., M. R. A. S. Cambridge
University Press.
-- - - ~ - - ~
- -  ~ - -
Religions of the Empire, edited by W.
Loftus Hare (published by Duckworth,
London), the addresses delivered by
representatives of the several religions
invited to participate in the conference
on Some Living Religions within the
British Empire held at the Imperial In-
stitute, London, England, from Septem-
ber 22 to October 3, 1924.
Inoludes
the two papers read on the Baha'i Cause.
In cloth. 519 pages .___.____.-
$4.00
LIST THREE
BAHA'~ LITERATURE IN FRENCH
Le Beyan Arabe, traduit par A. L. M.
Nieolas.
Editions Laoux, Paris--fr. 10
L'oeuvre de Bahri'u'llrih, traduit par Hip-
polyte Dreyfus. Edition, Leroux, Paris.
Deux volumes.
(A suivre.)
Le vel-
m e  -..-.--------.---------------fr.6
Les Lecons de St. Jean d'Ame, traduction
francais de "Some Answered Questions"
by Laura Clifford Barney. Editions Le-
ronx, Paris ---.------.-------
fr. 10

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Essai sur le Behaisme, son histoire la por-
Wilhelm Herrigel:
Die Bahh'i-Reque.
tee sociale, par Hippolyte ~ r e ~ f h a
Edi-
gun9 im allgemeinen und ihre gros-
tions Leroux, P a m  -----------____
fr. 5
sen Wirkungen in Indien. (enthal-
L ' E @ ~ ~ ~
au F& du L
~
~
~
,

~ ~ h ~ , ~ q l d h ,
tra-
tend: S. S.: Ein Jahr unter den Ba-
duction franpais par Hippolyte Dreyfus.
hL'i in Indie11 und Bima.) ----M 0.50
Librarie Champion, Paris
fr, 10
Alice T. Sehwan: Die uniwe~sale Wel-
Le Behaisme, sa mission dans le monde,
treligion.
Ein Bliek in die Baha'i-
par Hippolyte Dreyfus, Chez TimJthei
Lehre ......................
M 0.50
Paris -_-_-----_.__._._._--.--.--
fr. i
Dr.
Grosmann:
Die Soziale
Frage und ihre Losung im Sinne der
Le Beyan Persan, tradnit par A. L. M.
Balui'ilehre __._..._____-
M 0.20
~,"a"~,","vol~~,",ir~e
v $ ~ , " ~ ~ - ~ I _ _ ~ f " ~ i
Rahd'i-Perlen:
Deubsch von Wilhelm
Herrigel .-_.-_------___
M 0.20
Das Hhscheide?t Abdu'FBahd's.
(The
LIST FOUR
Passing of 'Abdu'l-Baha.)
Deuts,ch
BAHL'~ LITEUTURE IN GERMAN
von Alice T. Sehwarz _____.__
M 0.50
1. rm verlag des deutchen ~
~
h
~
z
f
.
~
~
~
d
~
~
,

2. im
Verlage
der
Weltgemeinschaft.
stuttgart, ~ ~ l d ~ ~ l i ~ ~ t = .
35. erschi.
Deutseher
Zweig,
W,anabek, &hi]-
enen :
lerstr. la, ersehienen:
Bah B,h,
llLh: Das heilige
Tablet, ein
Dr. Helrmann Grossmann: Bahd'i-Er-
Sendschreiben an die Christenheit.
ziehung (Schriften znr BahB'i-Erzie-
Deutseh von Wilhelm HerrislLM 0.20
Nr.
Kostenlos.
Jos. der Schiiferlcnabe.
'Abdu'l-BahB
B'ahBru'llah:
V e r b o r g e n  e
Worte.
nacherziihlt.
(Rosengirtlein-Jugend-
Deutsch von A. Sehwarz und W.
bueher Nr. I ) ,  1924. Kostenlos.
Herrigel. Nach der endkchen Bear-
~i~ ~
~
~
~
h
i
~
h
t
~

kleinen. vogel und
beitung von Shoghi Effendi------MI
?,,dere
~
~
~
a
h
l
~
~
~
aus dem ~~b~~
Baha'u'llah:
Frohe Botschaften, Worte
Abdu'l-B,ahavs.
(Rosengahrtlein-Ju-
des Paradiesess, Tablet Tarasat, Tab-
gendbueher Nr. 2, 1925.) Kostenlos.
~
u
t
~
~
~
~
~
l
~
i
l
h
e
~
~
,
"
r
r
i
~
,
"
~
l
"
h
~
f
f
~
~

3. von der Bahl'i-Bewegung Hamburg he-
raus~gegeben:
Ab~du'l-B,ahP: Eine Botschaft an die
Deutseh:
Juden.
Deutsch von Wilhelm Herri-
Dr. Herman Grossmann :
Gotteser
gel
kenntnis
und
Gottesbegriff, ~m
Abdu'l-Bahd:
Ansprachen
uber
die
Sinne d a  Baha'i-Lehre erlautert.
Bahd'ilehre.
(Ansprachen in Paris.)
81. Kmtenlos.
Deutsch von Wllhelm Herrigel__-M3
Was ist die Bahd'i-Bewegung?
Flugblatt.
Thornton Chase:
Ehe Abraham war
Kostenlos.
war Ich. Deutseh von Wilhelm Her:
Es'perantO:
rigel ___.._..__.____.._~____
M 0.20
Hermann Gvssmann: Historw,
Thornton Chase: Die Bahk'i-Offenba-
instncoi kaj valwro de la Bahri'i-
rung. Ein Lehrbuch.
Deutsch von
movado.
(Publikajoj de la Esper-
Wilhelm Herligel --______--_._-
M 4
anto-komitato de la Baha'i-movado
ham bur^ Nr. 1.) 81-1925. Kosten-
I. D. Brittingham:
Die Off~nbarung
Bahb'u'llbh's.
Deutsch von Wilhelm
Herrigel _._..______.__.___-_
M 0.50
Mirza
Ahnl
Fazl:
Geschlchte
nnd
Wahrheitsbeweise der Bahd'i-religion.
Deutsch van Wilhelm Herrigel-M 4.50
Dr. jur. H. Dreyfus: Einheitsreligion.
I'hre Wirkung iauf Staat, Erziehung,
Sozialpolitik, Frauenrechte und die
einzelne Pers6nliehkeit. Deutseh von
W. Herrigel _-.__.__..______
M 0.50
Ch. M. Remey:
Das neue Zeitdter.
Deutsch von Wilhelm He,rrigelLM 0.50
Myron H. Phelps: Abdu'LBahd-Abbas'
Leben und Lehren. Deutsch van WWil-
helm Herrigel ------___..____._
M 4
S. S.: Die Geschichte der Bahd'iBewe-
gung. Deutsch von Wilhelm Herri-
gel -----------.__-_---------
M0.20
10s.
4. sonstige Veroffentlichungen:
Deutsch:
Ein Brief won Bahb'iyyih Khanum.
Aua dem Englisehen ubersetzt von
A. Schwarz, Stuttgart, 1924.
Dr.
Adelbert
Muhlsehlegel:
Melo-
drama zum dritten deutsehen Ba-
hi'i-Kongress 80. Stuttgart, 1924.
Dr. Adelbert Miihlschlegel: Ridwan 81
Festspiel. Stuttgart, 1925.
Eeperanto:
Dro. Adelbert Muhlsehlegel:
Paro-
lado en Za dua Bahaa-lncnveno en
Genewo. Flugblatt. Stuttgart, 1925.
Kostenlus.
Engliseh:
Bahd'i-Congress
Stuttgart,
19d0.
Shuttgart, 192'4.

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK

GRAP HY
6. Friiher ersehienene, jetzt vergriffene
Veroffentlichungen :
BahP'u'llbh:
Das Tablet vow Zweiy.
Aua dem Englischen ubersetzt von
Fr. Schweizer. Zuffenhauren.
'Abdu'l-Baha
Abh'as:
Tablette allge-
meiner Belehrung. Deutsche Ueberset-
zung vou Fanny A. Knobloch. 1906.
'Abdu'l-Bahi:
Tablette an die Gelieb-
ten Gottes des Abehdlandes.
Deut-
sche Uebersetzung von Fanny A.
Knobloch. 1906.
Mirza Abul Fazl Gulpaygan: Glanzen-
der Beweis.
Aus dem
Englixhen
iihersetzt von Friednich Sehweizer,
Zuffenhausen.
Wilhelm Herrigel:
Universaler Friede,
universale Eleligion. Die Baha'i-Be-
wegung, ihr Zweck und Ziel. 2. Au-
Rage Suttgart, 1915.
Wilhelm
Herrigel: Die Zeichen un-
serer Zeit Crn Lichte der Bibel und
der Bahri'ilehre. Stu'ttzart. 1916.
-
.

Religwse Liohtblicke: Einige Erliute-
runKen zur Baha'i-Bewegung.
Aus
dem Fraueosiacheu iibersetzt Ton Al-
bert Renftle. Stutkart, 1916.
Die Bau'i-Bewegung. Flugblatt. Karls-
ruhe.
Pastor Dr. Riimor:
Die Babi-Bahd'i.
Verlag der deutsohen Orienbmission,
1912. (Gegenschrift.)
Dr., F. C. Andreas: Die Babi's in Per-
szen. Ihre Geschichte nnd Lehre
Leipzig, 1896.
LIST FIVE
PARTIAL LIST OF BARIZ'i LITERATURE IN
ORIENTAL LANGUAGES
Persian:
1. The Book of IqcEn. Bombay.
2. The Book of Mubin Tablets of Ba-
hd'u'lllih. ~ o m b a i .
3. The Book of Iqtdhr, Tablets of Ba-
hd'u'lluh. Bombay.
4. The Book of Aqdas. Bombay.
5. The Ishraqdt, Taraxat, Tajalliat,
Bombay.
6. Tablets from Bahd'u'llcih. Cairo.
7. The Book of IqcEn. Cairo and Bom-
bay.
8. Tablets and Prayers from Baha'u'-
1Idh.
Cairo.
9. The Will and Testement of BahBi'-
ZlcEh. Russia.
10. Some Answered Questions. London.
11. The Traveller's Narrative. London.
12. The Muduniyueh, by 'Abdu'l-BahB.
Cairo and Bombay.
13. The
Siasiyyeh, by
'Ahdu'l-BahB.
Cairo and Bombay.
14. The Will o,wd Testament of 'Abdu'l-
Bahli. Bombay.
15. The Epistle to the Son of the Wolf,
BahA'u'llah. Cairo.
16. Seven Valleys, Four Vallays, and
Poetry of Bahd'u'lllih, Cairo.
17. The Tabkt8 of 'Abdu'l-Baht%, Vol. 1.
Cairo.
- -  -.
18. The Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahli, Vol. 2.
Cairo.
19. The Tablets of 'Abdu'GBahri, Vol. 3.
Cairo.
20. Some Answered Questions. Cairo.
21. AdFam'id, by Abu'l-Fadhl. Cairo.
22. Dwer'LBahigyeh,
AUu'l-F a d hl.
C a i ~ .
23. The Letters of Abu'LFadhl. Cairo.
24. The History of Haji Muhammad Ta-
hir. Cairo.
25. Dala'il-el-'Irfan, Haider Ali. Cairo.
26. Bihjet'l-Sudur, Haider Ali. Cairo.
27. Hujaj'l-Bakiyyeh,
A b u ' l-F a d  h 1.
Crairo.
28. Bahr'G'Irfan, by Muhammad Afishax.
Bombay.
29. The History of Tahireh. Cairo.
30. The Travels of 'Abdu'GBaha, Vol. 1
and 2, Mahmud Zarqani.
Bom-
bay.
31. The Early Tablets of Bahli'u'lllih,
edited by Baron Rosen, St. Peters-
bure.
32. Memorials of the Faithful, 'Abdu'l-
Baha.
Haifa.
Urdu:
1. The T~alzslativn of Ishraqrit, TajaG
liat, 'l'arazat, and Kalamat. Bom-
bay.
2. The Translation of the Tablet to the
World of Bah$u'llah.
Bombay.
3. The Seven VaLkus. Bombay.
4. The Hidden Words. Bombay.
5. The Tablets of 'Abdu'l-Bahli.
Arabic:
1. The Ish~aqdt, Tajalliat, Taraxat,
and Kahrnat. Cairo.
2. The Talks of 'Abdu71-BUM in Europe
a d  America. Translation anony-
mous.
Cairo.
Tu~kish:
1. ''Soma Answered Questions" lnstruc-
tions of 'Abdu'l-Bahi.

A& BOOK
PART THREE
Compiled by BISHOP BROWN
ALPHABETICAL LIST
The B6b (The Writings of) :
Le Beyan Arabe; Le Livre Sacre du
Babysme de Seyyed Ali Mohammed
Dit le B6b.
French translation by A.
L. M. Nicolas.
Ernest Leroux, Paris,
1905.
Le Beyan Persan.
French translation
by A. L. M. Nicolas.
Paris Librairie.
1 Vol. Paul Geuthner, 1911.
Le Livre des Sept Preuves de la Mlssiun
ch Bhdb. French translation by A. L.
M. Nicolas.
Paris,, 1902.
Bahri'u'll6h (The Writings o f )  :
The Book of Assurance (Book of Ighan) ,
Brentano's, New York, 1925.
Hidden Words from the Arabic and Per-
szan.
Translated by Shoghi Effendi.
BahO'i Publishing
Committee,
New
York. 1924.
Seven Valleys. Translated by Ali Kuli
Khan. Chicago.
Tablets of Bahhd'u'lldh (Tarwat, Tablet
of the World, Words of Paradise, Ta-
jalleyat, The Glad Tidings, Zshrakat-
The Most Great Infallibility). Trans-
lated by Ali Kuli Khan. Baha'i Pub-
lishing Society, Chicago, 1906.
Three
Tablets of
BaM'u'llbh
(The
Branch Kitab-el-Ah'd Lawh-edAkdas.
~ranslLted by Ali , ~ u l i  chan.
Chi-
cago Bahi'i Publlshlng Somety, 1918.
Surat 'ul HykE. Translated from the
Arabic by Antotn IEaddad.
C~hica~go,
1900.
The Soq~rce nf Spiritual Qualities. Four-
p,age leaflet.
BahB'i Publishing So-
ciety, 1924.
L'Oeuvre de Bahd'u'lkih. 2 Vols. French
translation
bv
Hippolyte
Dreyfus.
Lenonx, Paris, 1924.
L'Epitre au Fils du Loup. French trans-
lation by Hippolyte Dreyfus. Honore
Champion, Brie, 1913.
Abdu'l-Bahhd (The Writings o f )  :
Abdu'l-Bahhd on Divine Philosophy. Com-
piled by Isabel Chamberlain.
Tudor
Press, Boston, 1916.
Abdu'l-Bahhd in London. Edited by Eric
Hammond. Eahi'i Publishing Society,
Chicago, 1921.
Abdu'l-Bahhd in New York. Baha'i As-
sembly, New York, 1922.
Letter and Tablet to the Central Organ-
ization
for a Durable Peace, The
Hague.
BahB'i
Publis~hing Society,
Chieago, 1920.
Letter to the Friends in Persia. Beh6'i
Publishing Society, Chicago, January
21, 1906.
Definition of Love by 'Abdu'dBahxi. Re-
ceived a t  New York, December 7, 1902.
Mysterious Forces of Civilization. Trans-
lated by Johanna Dawud. Bahh'i Pub-
lishing Society, Chiago, 1918.
The Promulgation of Universal Peace.
2 Vols. Compiled by Howard MeNutt,
Baha'i
Publishing Society, Chicago,
1922 and 1925.
Tablets of 'Abdu'l-BUM. 3 Vols. Com-
piled by A l ~ e r t  Windust. B#ahB'i Pub-
lishing Society, Chieago, 1909, 1915,
1916.
Tablet to the Beloved of God in America.
Translated by Ali Kuli Khan.
Cam-
bridge, Mass,., January 3, 1906.
Tablets by Abdu'l-BahP Abbas to Home
of Justice of Chicago, to the Ladies'
Assembly of
Teaohings, and Others.
Translated by Ali Kuli Khan. Chica-
go, September 12, 1901.
Tablet to the Beloved of God of the Oc-
ctdent. Translated by Ahmad Espha-
hani. Washington, D. C., September 8,
1906.
Tablets to the East and West. Trans-
lated by Ahmad E.sphahani. The Ba-
hi'i Assembly of Washington, D. C.,
1908.
Tablets Containing Instructions. Trans-
lated by M. A. E. Washington, D. C.,
August 29, 1906.
Tablets Containing General Instructions.
Translated by Ahmad Esphahani. The
Baha'i A4sociation of Washington, D.
C., 1907.
Tablets to Some American Believers in
the Year 1800. The B'oard of Council,
New York, 1901.
Prayers and Tablets. 1906.
The Will and Testament of Ab&'d
Bahhd.
Same Answered Questions.
Translated
by Laura Clifford Barney.
Baha'i
Publishing Society, Chicago, 1918.
Unveiling of the Divine Plan. Trans-
lated by Ahmad Eiahrab. Tudor Press,
Bmoston, 1919.
Utterances to Two Young Men. Board of
Council, New York, 1901.
Visiting Tablets for Martyrs Who Suf-
fered in Persh. Translated by Ali Kuli
Khan.
Baha'i Board of Council, New
York, 1901.
The Reality of ReliglovTablet of Ab-
du'l-Bah6. Four-page leaflet. BahA'i
Publishing Society, 1924.

BIBLIOGRAPHY
Wisdom of Abdu'l-Bahd (Paris Talks).
Fazl, Ahul: The Baha'i Proofs.
Trans-
Edited by Lady Blomfield. Brentano's
lated by Ali Kuli Khan. Bahi'i Publish-
New York, 1924.
ing Soci~ty, Chicago, 1914.
Wisdom Talks of Abdu'l-BaM. chicago
Baha'i News Service.
Woman's Great Station.
An address
given in New York in 1912.
Shoghi Effendl (The Writings o f )  :
Letters from Shoghi Effendi.
Baha'i
Publishing
Committee,
New
York,
1924.
dgnew, Arthur S.: Table Tallcs at Acca.
By Abdn'l-Baha Abhas.
Baha'i Publish-
ing Society, Chicagc, 1907.
Ali, Radji Mirza Heider: Bahd'i Martyr-
doms i n  Persh i n  the Year 1903 A. D.
Translated by Youness Khan.
Baha'i
Publishi~ig Society, Chicaeo, 1907.
Blomfield, Lady: The Passing of Abdu'b
Bahk.
Brittingham, 1,aa'rella D.: The Revelation
of Bahd'u'lkih.
Baha'i Publishing So-
ciety, Chicago, 1902.
Brittingham, James F.: The Message of
the Kingdom, of God. 1907.
Campbell, Helen:
The Bahri'i Movement
i n  Its Saciul-Economic Aspect. Baha'i
Publishing Society, Clicago, 1915.
Chase, Thornton: The BahQ'i Revelation.
Baha'i Publishing Slociety, Chicago, 1909.
Chase, Thornton: What Went Y e  Out for
to See?
C'hase, Thornton an,d Agnew Arthur: In
Galilee.
~ a h l ' i  ~ u b l i s h i n ~ ' ~ o c i e t y ,
Cbi-
cago, 1908.
Dealy, Paul Kingston:
The Dawn of
Knowledge and the Most Great Peace.
Bahi'i Board of Couuscl, New York,
1903.
Dodge, Arthur Pillsbury: The Truth of It.
Mutual Publishing Company, New York,
1901.
Dodge, Arthur Pillsbury : Whence? Why?
Whither? Man! Things! Other Thtngs!
Ariel Press, Westwand, Mam, 1907.
Dreyfus, Hippolyte:
The Universal Rs-
ligion; Bahri'ism, Baha'i Publishing So-
ciety, London, 1909.
Esslemont Dr J. E.: &LhQ'u'lkLh and the
New .kra.'~rentano's, New York, 1923.
E~slemont, Dr. J. E.: What I s  a Bahd'i?
American edition published by Louis
Bourneois, Chicano, 1921.
Fadil, Jinab-i:
Addresses. 6 Vols. Pam-
phlet size. Translated by Ahmad Soh-
rab. Seattle, 1921.
Fad, Ahul: Knowing God Through Love.
Farewell
address.
BahA'i
Assembly,
Waslung.ton.
Fazl, Abul: The Brilliant Proof.
Bahi'i
News Service, Chicago, 1912.
Fitzgerald, Nathan Ward: The New Reve-
lation; Its Marvelous Message. Tacoma,
1905.
Finch, Ida: Rays from the Sun of Truth.
Flnwers Culled From the Rose Garden of
Acca by Three Pilgrims in 1908.
Ford, Mary Hanford: The Oriental Rose.
BahA'i Publishing Society, 1910.
Fraser-Chamberlain
Isabel:
From the
World's Greatest 'Prisoner to His Prison
Friends. Tudor Press, Bmton, 1916.
Gwd'all, Helen S., and Cooper, Ella G.:
Daily Lessonv Received at Acea-1908.
Baha'i Publishing Society, Chicago, 1908.
Gre~ory, Louis G.: A Heavenlw Vista.
- .
Grundy, Julia M.: Ten Days h the Light
of Acca. Baha'i Publishing Society, Chi-
cago, 1907.
Haddad, Anton,:, Divine Revelation, the
Basis of Citnlzzation. Board of Council,
New York, 1902.
Haddad, Anton: Message from Acca.
Haddad, Anton:
M,azims of
Balzri'ism.
Board of Council, New York.
Haddad, Anton: Station of Manifestation.
Haney, Charles and Mariam: A Heavenly
Feast.
Harris, W. Hooper:
Lessons on the Ba-
hd'i Revelation.
Holley, Horace, and Ruh'i Afnan.
The
BuhQ'i Relipion. BahB'i Publishing Com-
mittee, New York, 1924.
Holley, Horace: Bahd'Gthe Spirit of tha
Age. Brentano's, New York, 1981.
Holley, Horace:
Bahd'ism-the
Modern
Social Religion. Mitchell Kennerly, New
York, 1913.
Holley,
Horace:
The
Social
PrLnciple.
Laurence J. Gomme, New York, 1915.
Hus-sein, Mirza Abdul: Letter written on
behalf of the "Friends
7' of Isfahan, Per-
sou. to the Amenmn Believers. April 25,
1902.
Karim, Abdel Effendi: Address dehvered
before the New York and Chicago As-
semblies. Translated hy Anton Haddad.
BahA'i Publishing Board, Chicago, 1900.
Khanunn, Moneemh: Episodes i n  the Life
of. Translated by Ahmad Sohrab. Per-
sian American Publishing Co., Los An-
geles, 1924.
Latimer, George Orr: The Call of God.
Baha'i Publishing Society, Chicago.

BAHA'i YEAR BOOK
Light of tha World. By a group of Pil-
gnms. The Tudor Press, Boston, 1920.
Lucas, Mary L.: A Brief Account of My
Visit to Acca. BahB'i Publishing Society,
Chicago, 1905.
MacNutt, Howard:
Unity Through Love.
BahB'i Publishing Society, Chicago, 1906.
Maxwell
May:
An Early Pilgrimage
1898. ' Bahi'? Publis~hing Smiety, chi:
cago, 1917.
Mohammed, Ali Alkany: Lessons in Re-
ligion.
English tramlation by Edith
Sanderson.
BahB'i Publishing Sueiety,
Chicago, 1923.
Peak, Margaret B.:
My Visit to Abbas
E f f e d  in, 1899. Grier Press, Chicago,
1911.
Phelps, Myron H.: Life and Teachings of
Abbm Effendi.
G. P. Putnam, New
York, 1912.
Prayers, Tablets, Instructions, etc., gath-
ered by American visitors in Acca, 1900.
Remey, Charles Mason: Twelve articles
intnoduetory to the study of
BahB'i
teachings.
Bemey, Charles Mason:
Universal Con-
sciousness of ths Bahd'i Religion.
Remey, Charles Mason: Letter from Hon-
olulu. Privately printed. February 17,
1917.
Remey, Charles Mason: The BahB'i Move-
ment. Washington, D. C., 1912.
Sassi, M. Gabriel: Martinists Report. An
address concerning the Bahi'i Religion
delivered a t  the Paris Exposition of
1900.
Table Talks-Regarding Reincarnation and
other subjects.
Thompson,
Juliet:
Abdu'l-Bahri's
First
Days in America. Roycrofters, East Au-
rora, N. Y., 1924.
True, Corinne:
Notes Taken at Acca.
EahL'i Publishing Society, Chicago, 1907.
Universal Principles of the Bahri'i Move-
ment. Persian American Bulletin. Wash-
ington, D. C., 1912.
Vail, Albert: BahB'i Movement-Its Spir-
itual Dynamic.
Vail, Albert: Heroic Lives. Beacon Press,
Boston, 1917.
Winterburn, Mr. and Mrs. George: Table
Tulles with Abdu'l-Bahb.
Bahl'i Pub-
lishing Sooiety, Chicago, 1908.
COMPILATIONS
Bahd'i Message. Compiled by Horace Hol-
ley, Chicago, 1920.
BahriT Scriptures. Compiled by Horace Hol-
ley, Brenbano's, New York, 1923.
Compilation No. 9. Concerning the Mo%t
Great Pence. Tudor Press., Boston, 1818.
Compilation of Utterances from the Pen of
'Abdu'l-Bahd
Regarding
His Station.
19 pages.
November 26, 1906.
R
~
~
~
~
,

M
~
~
~
~
:

~h~ ~ ~ h c i ' i
aeve- Divine Pearls.
Compiled by Victoria Be-
lation and Reconstruction. BahB'i pub-
dikian.
lishing Society, Chicago, 1919.
God a d  His Manifestations. Compiled by
Remey,
Charles
Mason:
Cmstructive
Mrs. M. H. Gift.
Principles of the B a W i  Movement. Ba-
Number 3 Compilation. A~ailable in dif-
ha'i Publishing Suciety, Chicago, 1917.
ferent languages.
Remey, Charles Mason: Observations of o
Bahd'i
Traveller.
Washington, D. C.,
1914.
Remey, Charles Mason:
The New Day.
BahL'i Publishing Society, Chicago, 1919.
Remey, Charles Mason: The Peace of tho
World. Bahh'i Publishing Society, Chi-
cago, 1919.
Remey, Charles Mason: Bahci'i Teachings.
(Seven-bound pamphlets.)
Washington,
D. C., 1917.
Remey, Charles Mason:
B a W i  Indexes.
'Newport, R. I., 1923.
Remey, Charles Mason:
Baklc'i Manu-
scripts. Newport, R. I., 1923.
Remey Charles Mason: Through Warring
c o u ~ t r j e s  to the Mountain of God. Pri-
vate printing.
Prayers Revealed by Bahd'u'llhh and Ab-
du'dBahd.
Prayers Revealed by Bahci'u'lldh and Ab-
du'l-Bahb.
Translated by SZloghi Ef-
fendi. Boston, 1923.
Racial Amity.
Compiled by M. H. and
M. &I. 1924.
The Most Great Peace. From the utter-
ances of Bahi'u'llBh and 'Abdu'l-BahL
Tudor Press, Boston, 1916.
MI~CELLANEOUS
BahriL6 Cause.
Eight-page pamp:Het pre-
pared #by lthe National Teachlng Com-
mittee.
BahL'i Publishing Society, 1924.
Bahri'i Calendars. Daily excerpts from the
writings of
Bahi'u'll&h
and
Abdu'l-
Babi.
Privately printed in Honolulu,
New York and other cities.
Roy and M. J. M.: Knock, and It Shall Be
Bahd'i Temple. Reprints of press cam-
Opened Unto You.
ments and
Temple Symbolism.
Pub-

REFERENCES TO BAHA'~ MOVEMENT
lished
by Louis
Bourgeois,
Chiwago,
1921.
Barney, Laura Clifford: God's Heroes. A
drama.
Llppineott, London and Phila-
delphia, 1910.
Masson, Jean:
The
Mashriqu'l-Adhkar
and the Bakd'i Movement. BahL'i Puh-
lishing Society, Chicago, 1921.
Remey, Charles Mason: Prospectus of a
Series of Five Lectures upon the Bah&'i
Movement.
Remey, Charles Mason: Mashriqu'l-Adh-
kar. Five preliminary sketches. Privately
printed.
Remey, Charles Mason: Mashriqu'l-Adh-
kar. (BahP'i house of worship.)
Pri-
v3ely printed.
Remey Charles Mason:
Bahd'i House of
wor;hip.
Description of the Bahd'i Tern
ple with Illustrations. BahB'i Publishing
Soeiety, Chicago, 1917.
Storer, Rev. J.: Thoughts That Build.
MacMillan Co., New York, 1924.
Waite, Louise R.:
Baha'i Hymns and
Poems. Baha'i Publishing Society, Chi-
cago, 1904.
Waite, Louise R.:
Hymns of Peace and
Praise. Chicago, 1910.
Watson, Albert Durrant:
The Dream of
God. A poem.
BahL'i Publishing So-
ciety, Chicago, 1922.
Views of Haifa, Acca, Mt. C a m e l  and
other places. Baha'i Publishing Society,
Chicago.
GERMAN P~IODICALS
Smne der Wahrhdt.
La Nova Tago (Esperanto).
PERSIAN
An-N6ru'l-AbhP-Fi-Muf1wad&t 'Ahdu'l-Ba-
ha. Table Talks. Collected by Laura C.
Barney.
Kegan, Paul, London, 1908.
'ani,
Mirza, of Kashan: Kitlb-i-Nuqtatu'-
L'Kaf.
Edited from +he
Unique Paris
M.S. by Esdward G. Browne.
Lusac &
Co., London.
Bahi'i News Letter. The Bulletin of the
National
Spiritual Assembly
of
the
United States and Canada.
The RahQ'i Magn,sins (Star of the West).
(Vol. 1, Bahd'i News.)
16 Vol. with
current year 1925.
Thw BaM'i World Fellowship.
The Magazine of the Children of the King-
dom.
The D m n .  Burma.
HeraZd of the East.
(Baha'i Newss of
India).
Sonne der Wahrhit. Germany.
L a  Nova Tago.
(Esperanto), Germany.
The Herald of the South. Australia.
Khurshid-e Khawar.
Askahad, Russia.
Albaha.
Kaukeb-e Hind.
MISCELJANEOUS EXCERPTS OF THE BAHA'I MOVEMENT
1. By Profes~sor E. G. Browne.
a. Introduction to M. H. Phelps' "Ab-
bas Effendi." P. XV-XX: 1903
rev. 1912.
I have often heard wonder expressed by
Christian ministers a t  ehe extraordinary
success of Bahi mis,&onaries, as contrasted
with the almost complete failure of their
own. "How is it," they say, "that the
Christian doctrine, the highest and the no-
blest which the world has ever known,
though supported by all the reeources of
Western eivjlization, can only count its
converts in Muhammedan lands by tww
and threes, while Barbism can reckon them
by thousands?" The answer, to my mind,
is plain as the sun at midday.
Western
Christianity, save in the rarest cases, is
more Western than Christian, more racial
than religious; and by dallying with doc-
trines plainly incompatible wikh the obvi-
ous meaning of its Founder's words, such
a s  the theories of "racial supremacy,"
"imperial destiny," "survival of the fittest,"
and the like, grows steadily more rather
than less ma.teria1. Did Christ belong t o  a
"dominant race," or men to a European
or 'Iwhite race?" . . . I a m  not arguin
g
that the Christian religion is true, hut
merely that it is in manifest conflict with
several other theories of life which prac-
tically regulate the conduct of all States
and most individuals in the Western world,
a world which, on ,ihe whole, judges all
things, including religions, mainly by ma-
terial, or t o  use the more popular term,
'~racticdl," standards. . . . There
IS,

of roume, another factor in the success of
the Bruhi propagandist, as cosmpared with
the Christian missionary, in the conversion
of Muhammedans to his faith: namely, that
the former admits, yhile the latter rejects,
the Divine inspirat~on of the Quran and
the prophetic function of Muhammad. The
Christian missionary must begin by at-
tacking, explicitly or by implication, both
these beliets; too often forgetting that if
(as happens but rarely) he succeeds in de-
stroying them, he destroys with them that
recognition of former prophetic dispensa-
tions (inclnding the Jewjsh and the Chris-
tian) which Muhammad and the Quran
proclaim, and converts his Muslim antag-
onist not to Christianity, hnk to Skepti-
cism or Atheism.
What, indeed, could be
more illogical an the part oi Christian
missionaries to Muhammedan lands than
to devoae much time and labour to the
compasition of controversial works which
endeavor to prove, in one and the same
breath, first, that the Quran i j  a lying
imposture, and, secondly, that it oears wit-
ness to the truth of Christ s mission, as
though any value attached to the testnnony
of one proved a I ~ a r !  The B a ~ i  (or Ba-
sh&'i) prupa.gandist, an the otner hand, ad-
mits that llluhammad was the prophet of
God and that the Quran is the Word of
God. denies nothina hut their finality, and
doe; not di~~credit~his
own witnes- wnen
he draws from that source arguments to
prove his falth. To the Western observer,
however it is the complete sancerity of the
BaSis {heir fearless disregard of
death
and tArture undergone for the sake of their
religion, their certain conviction as to the
truth of their faith, their generally ad-
mirable conduct towards mankind and es-
pecially
towards
their
fellow-believers,
which constitute then strongest claim on
his attention.
Introduction to Mr. M. H. Phelps' "Abhas
Effendi." P. XII-XIV.
I t  was under the influence of this en-
thusiasm that I penned the introduction to
my translation ob the "Traveller's Narra-
tive.". . . . This enthusiacun,
condoned,
if not shared, by many kindly critics and
reviewers, exposed me to a somewhat sav-
age attack in the "Oxford Magazine," an
attack concluding with the assertion that
my Introduction displayed "a personal at-
titude almost inconceivable in a rational
Rammean. and a stvle nn~ardonahle m a
- -.
.
nniv&siti te,aeher." "  he-review in ques-
tion appeared in the Oxford Magazine of
May 25 1892 P. 304 . . . "the promi-
nence &en td the Bbh in this hook is a n
absurd violation of historical perspective;
and the translation of the "Traveller's Nar-
rative" a w a t e  of the powers and oppor-
tunities of a Persian Scholar.")
Increas-
ing age and experience (more's the pity!)
are apt enough, even without the assistance
d the Oxford Magadne to modify our en-
thusiasms' but in this case a t  least time
has so far' vindicated my jnhgment against
that d my Oxford Rev~ewer that he could
scarcely now maintain, as he formerly as-
serted, that the Babi religion "had affected
the least important part of the Moslem
World, and that not deeply." Every one
who is in the slightest degree conversant
with the actual state of things (Septem-
her 27, 1903) in Persia now recognizes that
the number and influence of the Babis in
that country 1s immensely greater than it
was fifteen yeans ago. . . .
b. "A Traveller's Narrative," P. 309.
The appearance of such a woman a s
Kurratu'l 'Ayn is in any country and any
age a rare phenomenon, but in such a couo-
try as Persia it is a prodigy-nay, almost
a miracle.
Alike in virtue of her marvel-
lous beauty, her rare intellectual gifts, her
fervid eloquence, her fearless devotion and
her glorious martyrdom, she stands forth
incomparable and immortal amidst her
countrywomen.
Had the Bahi religion no
other claim to greatness, this were su&-
eient--that it produced a heroine like Kur-
ratu'l 'Ayn.
Introduction to "A Traveller's Narrative."
P. IX. X.
Introduction to "A Traveller's Narrative."
P. xxxv, XXXVI.
Seldom have I seen one whose appear-
ance impressed me more. A tall, strongly-
built man holding himself straight as an

B A H ~ ~
YEAR BOOK
arrow, wiL11 white turban and raiment,
long black lacks reaching almost to the
shoulder, broad powerful forehoad, indi-
cating a strong intellect, colnbined wibh an
unswerving will, eyes keen as a hawk's,
and strongly marked hut pleawng features
-such
was my first impression of "Ahbas
Effendi," "The master" (Aki) as he par
excellence is called by the Babis.
Subse-
quent conversation with him served only
t o  heighten the respect with which his ap-
pearance had from the first inspired me.
One more eloquent of speech, more ready
of argument more apt of illustration, more
intimately icquainted
with
the sacred
books of the Jews, the Christians and the
Muhammadans, could, I should think, be
scarcely found even amongpt the eloquent,
ready and subtle race to which he belongs.
These qualities combined with a hearing
+t once majestic and genial, made me cease
tb wonder a t  the influence and esteem
~ h i c h
he enjoyed even beyond the circle of
his father's followers.
About the great-
ness n t  this man and his power no one who
had seen him could entertain a doubt.
11. By Dr. J. Estlin Carpenter.
a. "Comparative Religion." P. 70, 71.
From that subtle race i,ssues the most
remarkable movement which modern Mo-
hammedanism has produced. . . . Disci-
ples gathered round him, and the movement
was not cheeked by his arrest, his impnsan-
ment for nearly six years and his final ex-
ecution in 1850. . . . It, too, claim's to be
a universal teaohing; it has already its
noble army of martyrs and its holy books;
has Persia, in the midst of her miseries,
g.iven birth to a religion which will go
rounsd the world?
111. Extracts from "The Reconciliation of
Races and Religions." By T.
K.
Cheyne, 1914.
There was living quite lately a human
being* of such consummate excellence that
many think it is both permissible and in-
evitable even to identify him mystically
with the invisible Godhead. , . . Kist
combination of mildness and power is so
rare that we have to place hisn in a line
with supernormal men. . . . We learn
that, a t  great points in his career after
he had been in an ecstscy, such radiance of
might and majesty streamed from his
countenance that none oould bear to look
upon the effulgence of
his glory and
beauty.
Nor was it an uncmmon occur-
rence for unbelievers involuntarily to bow
down in lowly Ubeisance on beholding His
Holiness.
The gentle spirit of the B&b is surely
high up in the cycles .of eternity. Who can
fail, as Professor Browne says, to be at-
tracted by him? "His sorrowful and per-
-
-
*Bahi'u'llih is meant.
tBib is meant.
seouted life: his pnrity of conduct and
youth; his courage and uncomplaining pa-
tlence under misfortune: his complete self-
negation; the dim ideal of a better state
of things which can be discerned through
the obscure mystic utterances of the Be-
yan; but most of all, his tragic death. all
serve to enlist our symmathies on hehalf of
the young prophet of Shiraz."
"I1 sentait Ie besoin d'une reforme pro-
fonde a introduire dslns les moeurs pub-
liques~, . . . I1 s'est sacvifie pow 1 % ~ -
manitie; pour elle il a donne sou corps et
son ame, pour elle il a suhi les privations,
les affronts, les injures, la torture et le
martyre."
(Mans. Nicolm.)
If there has been any prophet in recent
times, it is to Bahi'u'llih that we must go.
Character is the final iudge.
Bahi'u'llih
was a man of the hirhest class-that of
prophets. But he was free from the last in-
firmity of noble minds. and would certainly
not have separated himself frnm others.
He would have understood the saying,
"Would God all the Lord's people were
prophets!" What he does sag, however, is
just as fine, "I do not desire lordship over
others; I desire all men to be even as I
am."
The day is not f a r  off when the details
of 'Ahdu'l-Bahi'ms missionary journeys will
he admitted to be of historical imuortanee.
How gentle and wise he was, hundreds
could testify from pensonal knowledge, and
I, too, could perhaps say something. . . .
I will only, however, give here the outward
framework of 'Abdu'l-Bahi's life, and of
his apostolic journeys, with the help of my
friend Lotfullah. . . .
During his stay in London He visited
Oxford (where He and His party-of Per-
sians mainly-were the guests af Professor
and Mm. Cheyne), Edinburgh, Clifton and
Waking.
I t  is fitting to notice here that
the audience a t  Oxford, though highly aca-
demic, seemed to he deeply interested. and
that Dr. Carpenter made an admirable
speech. . . .
1V. Professor Vambery's Testimony to the
Religion of 'Abdu'l-Bahl.
I forward this, humble petition to the
sanctified and holy presence of 'Abdu'l-
Baha Abbas, who is the center of knowl-
edge, famous thrau hout the world and
loved by all manknd,
0 ,  thou 'noble
friend who art confernng gu~dance upon
humanitv, may my life be a ransom to
..
.
-
thee!
The l a ~ i n g  epistle which you have con-
descended to write to this servant, and the
rug which you have forwarded, came
bafely to hand.
The time of the meeting
with your Excellency, and the memory of
the benediction of your presence, recurred
to bhe memory of thiw servant, and I am
longing for the bime when I shall meet you
again. Alth,ough I have travelled through

REFERENCES TO BAHA'~ MOVEMENT
many countries and citios of I,slam yet
have I never met so lofty a character) and
MI exalted a personage as your Excellency,
and I can bear witness that it is not pos-
sible to find such another. On this account
I am hoping that the ideals and amom:
plishments of your Excellency may be
crowned with succeso and yield results un-
der all condibions; because b' ehind these
idea18s and deeds I easily discern the eter-
nal welfare and urosneritv of the world of
humanity.
-
-
"
This servaut, in order to gain firsbhand
information and experience, entered into
the ranks of various religions that is out-
wandly.
I became a Jew,  irish hi an: Mo-
hammedan and Zoroastrian.
I discovered
that the devotees of these various religions
do nothing else but hate and anathematise
emh other, that all their religions have be-
come the instruments of tyranny and op-
pression in the hands of rulers and gov-
ernors, and that they are the causes of the
deskruetion of the world of humanity.
Considering tho3e evil results, every per-
son is forced by necessity to enlist himself
on bhe side of your Excellency, and accept
with joy the prospect of a fundamental
basis for a universal religion of God, being
laid through your efforts.
I have seen the father of your Excel-
lency from afar. I have realized the self-
sacrifice and nable courage of his son, and
I am lost in admiration.
For the principles and aims of your Ex-
cellency, I express the utmost respect and
devotion, end if God, the Most High, con-
fens long lde, I will be able to serve you
under all conditions.
I pray and suppli-
cate .this from the depths of my heart.
Your servant,
(Mamhenyn.)
VAMBERY.
(Translated from the Persian by Mirza
Ahmad Sohrah.
Published m Egyptian
Gazette, September 24, 1913, by Mrs. J.
Stannard.)
thing which may revivify Islam, and make
great ch,anges on the face of the Asiatic
world."
VI. Extract from "The Middle Eastern
Question or Some Political Problems
of
Indian
Defence," by Valentine
Chirol.
Chapter XI, page 116 (The
Revival of Bahmiism) .
When one has been like Sa'di, a great
per6onage
and then a common soldier
and then) a
prisoner
of
a
~ h r i s t i a i
feudal
chief;
when
one
has
worked
as a navvy on the fortifications of the
Count of Antioch
and wandered back
afoot to Shiraz after infinite pain and la-
bour, he may well he disposed to think that
not ing that exists is real, or, a t  least, has
any substantial reality worth clinging to.
Today the public peace of Persia i r  no
longer subject to such violent perturba-
tions.
At least, as far as we are eon-
cerned, the alppearanees of peace prevail
and few of us care or have occasion td
look beyond the appearance;.
But for the
Persians themselves, have the conditions
very much changed? Do they not witness
one day the mdden rise of this or that fa-
vourite of fortune and the next day his
sudden fall? Have they not seen the Ata-
beg-Azamm t w i ~ e  hold sway ax the Shah's
all-powerful Vlzier, and twice hurled down
from that pinnacle by a bolt from the blue?
How many other nlinisters and governors
have ,sat for a time on the x a t s  of the
mighty and been swept away by some in-
trigue as sordid as that to which they
owed their own exaltation? And how many
in humbler lstations have been in the mean-
time the recipients of their unworthy fa-
vours or Dhe victims of their arbitrary
oppreslsion?
A village which but yester-
day was fairly prasperaus is beggared to-
day by some neighbouring landlord higher
up the.valley, who, having duly propitiated
those m authority, diverts for the benefit
of his own estates *he whole of its rlender
- -. - - - -..
arles Lukach.
ary retinue o f  ravenous hangers-on eats
Lon, 1913.)
out the countrvside throuzh whirh
:t
"BahA'ism is now estimated to oount
more than two million adherents mostly
cwnpwed of Persian and 1ndian' Shiahs,
hut including also many Sunis frmn the
Turkish E~m~pire
and North Africa, and not
a few Brahmans, Buddhists, Taoisbs, Shin-
toists and Jews.
It possesses even Euro-
pean convertis, and has made some head-
way in the United States. Of all the re-
ligions which have been encountered in the
course of .this journev-the
stagnant ~ o o l s
passes more effectually than a fl&i;t oi
locusts.
The visitation is as ruinous and
as unaccountable. Is it not the absence of
all vioible moral correlation of cause and
effect in thes,e phenomena of d.aily life that
has gone f a r  to pronure the stolid fatal-
ism of Dhe masses the scoffing skepticism
of the more eduched classes and from
time to time the revolt of .&me nobler
minds? Of such the most recent and per-
hap? the noblest of all became the founder
of Oriental Cliristianitv, the siranre-sur-
O1
vivals of sun-worship and idolatry-tinged
with ~ahammedanlsm' the immutable rellc
Chapter
p q e
of the Sumerians-it
Is the only one which
The Bib was dead but n& Babiism He
is alive, which 1s aggressive which is ex-
was not the first, an; still less the lait, of
tending its frontiers instead of secluding
a long line of martyrs who have testified
itself within its angient haunts. It is a
that, even in a country gangrened with eor-

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
Annual ~neeting and feast in the Pine Grous, West Englswood, N .  J., Jxne, 1925,
cov~maorating the Unity Feast given by 'Abdu'l-Bahri on June 29, 1912.

REFERENCES TO BAHA'~ MOVEMENT
mption and atrophied with indifferentism
like Persia, the soul of a nation survives,
inarticulate, perhaps, and in a way help-
less, but still capable of sudden spasms of
vitality.
VII. Extract from "The Middle Eastern
Question or Some Political Problems
of
Indian
Defence" by Valentine
Clhirol. Chapter ~ 1 , ' p a g e  124.
Socially one of the most interesting fea-
tures of Babiism is the raising of women
to a much higher plane man she is usually
admitted to in the Eawt. The Bbb himself
had no more devoted a disvciple than the
beautiful and gifted lady known as Ky;
trat-ul-Ain the "~onsolatibn of the Eyes
who, havin'g shared all the dangers of tde
first 'apostolic missions in the north, chal-
lenged and suffered death with virile forti-
tude, as one of bhe Seven Martyrs of Te-
heran. No memory is more deeply vener-
ated or kindles greater enthusiasm than
hers, and the influence which ehe yielded
in her lifetime still inures ta her sex.
VIII. Extract from "Heroic Lives," by Al-
bert Vail. P. 305.
Prof. Jowett of Oxford, Master of Bal-
liol, the translator of Plato, studied the
movement and was so impressed thereby
that
he
said: "The
Babite
(BahB'i)
movement may not impossibly turn out to
have the promise of .the future."
Dr. J.
Estlin Carpenter quotes. Prof. Edward
Caird, Prof. Jowett's succe,ssor as Master
of Balliol, as saying, "He thought Bahism
(as the Bahl'i movement was then called)
might prove the most important religious
movement since the foundation of Chris-
tianity." Prof. Carpenter him'self gives a
s,keteh of the Baha'i movement in his re-
cent book on ''Comparative Religion" and
asks, "Has Pensia, in the midst of her
m~series, given birth to a religion that will
go around the world?"
From its inception it has been identified
with BshC'u'llLh, who paid the price of
prolonged exile, imprisonment, bodily suf-
fering, and mental anguish for the faith he
cherished-a
man of imposing personality
as revealed in his writings characterized
by inten~e moral earnes~tness' and profound
spirituality, gifted with the selfsame power
so conspicuous in the character of Jesus
the power to appreciate people ideally that
is, to see them a t  the level of their) best
and. to make even the lowest: types think
well of themselves because of potentialities
within them to which he pointed but of
which
.they were
wholly
una$are.
a
prophet whose greatest contribution 'was
not any specific doctrine he proclaimed
hut an informing spiritual power breathed
into the world through the example of his
life and thereby quickening souls into new
spiritual activity.
Surely a movement of
which all this call be said deserves-nav.
compels-our respectful recwnition agd
sincere appreciation.
. . . Takin'g precedence over all else in
its gospel is the m w a g e  of unity in re-
ligion. . .
It is the crowning glory of
the BahP'i Movement that, while depreeat-
ing sectarianism in its preaching, ~t has
faithfully practiced what it preached by
refraining from becoming itself a sect.
. . . Its representatives do not attempt
to impomse any beliefs upon others, whether
by argument or bribery. rather do they
seek to put beliefs that h&e illumined their
own livw within the reach of those who
feel they need illumination.
No not a
sect, hot a part of humanity cut dff from
all the rest, living for itself and aimins to
convert all the rest into material for its
own growth; no, not that, but a leaven
causing  piri ritual fermentation in all re:
ligions, quickening them with the spirit of
catholicity and fraternalism.
X. Extract from "Perda
.and Parsis."
Part I, edited by G. K. Nariman. Pub-
lished under patronage of the I r l n
League, Bombay, 1925.
The Marker
Literary Series for Persia, No. 2.
"The political reprieve brought about by
the Sulk did not result in the regeneration
of thought.
But the last century which
marks the end of Persia h a  had its re-
vival and twofold revival, literary and re-
ligious. The funeral ceremonies by whioh
Persia celebrates every year for centuries

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
The kahri'i Feast given to Miss Agnes Alezand~r. September 9, 1921,
in Seoul. Korea. Miss Alexander is the illurnanad pioneer who first
brought the Glad Tidings to Korea.
Buddhist College Students who attended the Bahd'i address given by
Miss Ames Alesander in Seoul. Korea. Octamber 18. 1986. &ring her
nccond visit to Korea.

REFERENCES TO BAHA'I MOVEMENT
the fatal day of the 10th of Mnhornlm,
when the son of Ali breathed his last a t
Kerbela, have developed a popular theatre
and prodwed a sincere poetry, dramatic
and human, which is worth all the rhetoric
of the poets.
During the same times an
attem,pt a t  religious renovation was made,
the religion of Babiism.
Demoralized for
centuries by ten foreign conquests, by the
yoke of a composite religion in which shz
believed just enough to persecute, by the
enervating influence of a mystical philoso-
phy which disabled men for action and
divested life of all aim and objects, Persia
has been making unexpected efforts for the
last 55 years to re-make for herself a vi-
rile ideal.
Babiism haw little of original-
ity in its dogmale and mythology.
It8 mys-
tic doctrine takes its rise from Sufism and
.the old sects of the Aliides formed around
the dogma of divine incarnation. But the
morality it inculcates is a revolution. I t
has the ethics of the West. It suppre,sses
lawful impurities wbich are a great bar-
rier dividing Imslam from Christendom. It
denounces polygamy, the fruitful source of
Oriental degenerat~on. It seeks to reeon-
stitute the family and it elevates man and
in elevating him exalts woman up to h ~ s
level.
Ba'biism, which diffused itself in
l a s  than five years from one end of Per-
sia to another wbich war bathed in 1852
in the blood df its martyrs, has been si-
lently progressing and propagating itself.
If Per,sia is to be at all regenerate it will
be through this new faith."-(Extract from
Art. By Prof. Jamm Darmester. Perwa:
A Historical and Literary Sketch. Trans-
lated by G. K. Nariman.)
XI. Extr:cts
from "Contemporary
Stu-
dies,
by Charles Baudouin, 1924.
Part 111, pp. 131.
Publishers: Allan
& Durwin, London.
We Westerners are too apt to imaglne
that the huge continent of Asia is, sleeping
as soundly as a mummy. We smile a t  the
vanity of the ancient Hebrews, who be-
lieved themselves to be the chosen people.
We are amazed a t  the intolerance of the
Greeks and the Romans who looked upon
the members of all ra6ns as barbarians.
Nevertheless, we ourselves are like the He-
brews the Greeks and the Romans.
As
~uro,;eans we believe Europe to be the
only world that matters, though from time
to time we may turn a paternal eye to-
wards America regarding our offspring in
the New war16 with mingled feelings of
condescension and pride.
Nevertheless, the great cataclysm of
1914 is leading some of us to undertake a
critical
examination
of
the
inviolable
dogma that the European nations are the
elect.
Has there not been of late years
a demonstration of the nullity of modern
civilization-the nullity which had already
been proclaimed by Rousseau, Carlyle,
Ruskin, Tolstoy, and Nietzsehe?
We are
now inclined to listen more attentively to
whispers from the East. Our self-compla-
eency has been disturbed by sueh utter-
ances as that of Rahmdranath Tagore,
who, lecturing a t  the Imperial University
of Tokio on June 18, 1916, foretold a great
future for Asia;' The political civilization
of Europe was carnivorous and cannibal-
istic in its tendencies." The East was pa-
tient, and could afford to wait till the West,
"hurrying after the expedient," had to halt
for want of breath. "Europe, while busily
speeding to her engagements, disdainfully
casts her glance from her carriage window
a t  the reaper reaping his harvest in the
field and in her intoxication of speed, can
not but think him as slow and ever reced-
irg backwards. But the speed comes. to its
end, the engagement lases its meaning, and
the hunary heart elamours for food, till
zt last sxe-comes to the lonely reaper reap-
ing his harvest in the sun. For if the of-
fice can not wait, or the buying and sell-
ing, or the craving for excitement, love
waits, and beauty, and the wisdom of suf-
fering and the fruits of patient devotion
and reverent meekness of
aimple faith.
And thus shall wait the East till her time
comes."
Being thus led to turn our eyes towards
Asia we are astonished to find how much
we have misunderstod it; and we blush
when we realize our previous ignorance of
the fact that, towards the middle of the
nineteenth century, Asia gave birth to a
great
religious
movement-a movement
signalized for its spiritual purity, one
which has had thousands of martyrs, one
which Tolstoy has described.
H. Dreyfur,
the French historian of this movement,
says that it is not "a new religion," but
"religion renewed," and that it provides
"the only possible basis for a mutual nn-
derstanding
between
religion and free
thought." Above all, we are impressed by
the fact that, in our own time, such a
manifestation can occur, and that the new
faith should have undergone a develop-
ment far more extensive than that under-
gone in the same space of time nearly taro
thowand years ago, by budding Chris-
tianity. . At the present time, the majority
of' <he inhabitants of
Persia have, to a
varying extent, accepted the Babiat faith.
In the great towns of Europe, America,
and Asia, there are active centers for the
propaganda of the liberal ideas and the
dodriue of human community, which form
the foundations of Bahi'ist teaching.
We shall not grasp the full significance
of this tendency until we pass from the
desmeription of Baha'ism as a theory to that
af Bahi'ism as a practice, for the core of
religion is not metaphysics, but morality.
The Baha'ist ethical code is dminated
by the law of love taught by Jesus and by
all the prophets. In the thousand and one
details of practical life, this law is subject

BAIiL'f YEAR BOOK
The Bahd'i Message carried to Alaska by Mr. and Mrs. 0. R. Gregory.

to manifold interprrtat,inns. That of Ba-
ha'u'llih is unquestionably one of the most
oomprehensive of these, one of the most
exalted, one ob the most satisfactory to the
modern mind. . . .
That is why Baha'u'llih is a severe critic
of the patriotism whjch plays, so large a
part in the national l ~ f e
of our day. Love
of our native land is legitimate, but this
love must not he exclusive. A m'an should
love his country more than he loves his
house (this is the dogma held by every
patriot); but Bahd'u'llih adds that he
should love the divine world more than he
loves his country.
From this standpoint,
patridism is seen to be an intermediate
stage on the road of renunciation, an in-
co~mplete and hybrid religion, something
we have to get beyond.
Throughout his
life BahB'u'llPh regarded the ideal univer-
sal ueace as one of the most important of
his aims. . . .
. . . Bahl'u'llLh
is in th?s respect
enunciating a
novel and fru~tfnl ldea.
There is a better way of dealing with so-
cial evlls than by trying to cure them after
thev have come to pass. We should try to
prevent them by removing their causes,
which act on the individual, and especially
on the child. N'othing can he more plastic
than the nature of the child. The goveru-
ment's first duty must he to provide for
the careful and efficient education of chil-
dren, remembering that education iesame-
thing more than instruction.
This will he
an enormous step towards the solution of
the social problem, and to take such a step
will ,be the first task of the Baitu'l Adl.
"It is ordained upon every father to rear
his son or his daughter by means of the
sciences, the arts, and all the command-
ments. and if any one should neglect to do
so, thdn the members of the council, should
the offender be a wealthy man, must levy
from him the sum necessary for the educa-
tion of his child. When the neglectful par-
ent is poor the cast of the neces3ary educa-
tion must 'be borne by the council, which
will provide a refuge for the unfortunate."
The B,aitu91 Adl, likewise, must prepare
the way for the establishment of universal
peace, doing this by organizing courts of
arbitration and by influencing the govern-
ments. Long before the Esperantists had
begun their oampaign
and more than
twenty years before ~ i ; h o l a s  I1 had sum-
moned the first Hague congress, BahP'u'-
llib was insisting. on the need f a r  a univer-
sal language and courts of arbitration. He
returns to these matters again and again.
"Let all the nations become one in faith,
and let all men be brothers, in order that
the bonds of affection and unity between
the mns.of men may be strengthened. . . .
What harm can there be in that? . . .
I t  is going to happen.
There will be an
end to sterile conflicts, to ruinous wars;
and the Great Peace will come!"
Such
were the words of BahP'u'll6h in 1890, two
years before his death.
While
adopting
and
developing
the
Christian law of love, BahP'n'llih rejected
the Christian principle oh ascetism.
He
discountenanced the macerations which
were a nightmare of the Middle Ages, and
whose evil effects persist even in our own
days. . . .
Bahi'ism, then, is an ethical system, a
system of social morality. But it would be
a mistake to regard BahL'ist teaching as
a collection of abstract rulee imposed from
without.
Bahi'ism is permeated with a
sane and noble mysticism; nothlng could
be more firmly rooted in the inner life,
more beniguly spiritual; nothing could
speak more intimately to the soul, in low
tones, and as if from within. . .
Such is the new voice that sounds to us
from Asia; such is the new dawn in the
Ea~st. We should give them our close at-
tention; we should abandon our customary
mood of disdainful superiority.
Doubtless,
Bahi'ulldh's
rteaehing is not definitivc.
The Persian prophet does not offer it to us
as such. Nor can we Europeans assimilate
all of it; for modern science leads us to
make certain claims in matters of thought
-claims we can not relinquish, claims we
should not try to forego. But even though
Bahi'u'llah's precepts (like those of the
Gospels) may not fully satisfy all these
intellectual demands; they are rarely in
conflict with our scientific outlooks. If
they are to become our own spiritual food,
they must be supplemented they must he
relived by the religious spikits of Europe,
must be re-thought by minds schooled in
the western mode of thought. But, in its
existing form, Bahi'ist teachingmay serve,
amid okr present chaos, to open for us a
road leading to solace and to comfort;
may restore our confidence in the spiritual
destiny of man. It reveals to us how the
human mind is in travail; it gives us an
inklinn of the fact that the grsatest h a y
penings of the day are not the ones we
were inclined to regard as the most mo-
mentous, not the ones which are making
the loudest noise.
(From Dr. Je.;sup's Talk.)
This then is our mission: that we who
are mkde in' the image of God should re-
member that all men are made in God's
image. To this Divine knowledge we owe
all we are, all we hope for. We are rising
gradually toward that image, and we owe
to our fellowmen to aid the,m in returning
to it in the Glory of God and the Beauty
of Holiness. I t  is a celestial pnvdege and

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
At right, Mr. and Mrs. Hyde Dun?, Bahri'i
teachers in Australia. At left, Mws Amy
Stevenson, a BahB'i of Auckland, New
Zealand.

REFERENCES TO BAHA'I MOVEMENT
with it rnrnes a high responsibility, from
which there is no escape.
In the Palace ob Behjeh or Delight, just
outside the Fortress of Acre, on the Syrian
coast, there died a few months slnce a
famous Persian sage
the Babi Saint
named ~ah~'u'1lih-th; "Glory of ~od":
the Head of that vast reform party of
Persian Moslems, who accept the New Tes-
tament as the Word of God and Christ as
the Deliverer of men, who regard all na-
tions a s  one, and all men as brothers.
Three years ago He was visited by a Cam-
bridge scholar and gave utterance to sen-
timents so noble, so Christ-like, that we
repeat them as OUT closing words:
"That all nations should become one in
faith and all men as brothers. that the
bonds of affection and unity hltween the
sons of men should be strengthened. that
diversity of
religions should ceasd and
differences of
race be annulled.
What
harm is there in this? Yet so it shall be.
Thes,e fruitless strifels, these ruinous wars
shall pass away, and the 'Most
Great
Peace' shall come.
Do not you in Europe
need this also?
Let not a man glory in
this, that he loves his country; let him
rather glory in this, that he loves his
kind."
XIII. Excerpts
from 'Persia" hy
the
Right Hon. The Earl curlon. Vol. I,
pp. 496-504. Written in 1892 A. D.
Beauty and the female sex also lent
their consecration to the new creed and
the heroism of the lovely but ill-fated po-
etess of
Kasvin
Zerin-Taj
(Crown of
Gold)
or ~urrai-el-Ain (Solace of the
Eyes), who, throwing off the Veil, carried
the missionary torch far and wide, is one
of the most affecting episodes in modern
history. . . . The lowest estm~nte places
the present number of Babis in Persia at
half a million.
I am disposed to think
from conversations with persons well qualil
fled to judge, that the total is nearer one
million.
They are to be found in every
walk of life, frosm the ministers and no-
bles of the Court to the scavenger or the
groom, not the least arena of their activity
being the Mussulman priesthood itself.
It
will have been noticed that the movement
was initiated by Syids, Hajis and Mullahs,
1. e., persons who, either by descent, from
pious inclination, or by profession, were
intimately concerned with the Mohamme-
dan creed; and it is among even the pro-
fessed votanes of the faith that they con-
tinue to make their converts. . . . Quite
recently the Babis have had great success
in the camp of another enemy, having
secured many proselytes among the Jew-
ish po ulations of the Persian towns. I
hear tKat during the past year (1891)
they are reported to have made 150 Jew-
ish converts in Teheran, 100 in Hamadan
50 in Kashan, and 75 per cent, of the ~ e w ;
a t
Gulpaigan. . . . The
two
victims,
whose namcs wcre &aji Miraa IIasan and
Haji Mirza Huseyn, have been renamd~ by
the Ba,bis Snltanes-Shahada, or King of
Martyrs and Mahbuh-es-Shahada or B e
loved of' Martyrs-and their nakeh graves
in the cemetery have become places of pil-
primage where many a tear is shed over
the fate of the "Martyrs of Isfahan.". . . .
It is these little incidents, protruding from
time to time their ugly features, that prove
Persia to be not as yet suite redeemed. and
that somewhat staggers the tall-talkers
about Iranian civilization.
If one conclu-
sion more than another has been farced
upon our notice by the retrospect in which
I have indulged, it is that a sublime and
murmuring devotion bas been inculcated
by this new faith, whatever it be.
There
IS, I believe, but one instance of a Bahi
having recanted under pressure of menace
of suffering, and he reverted to the faith
and was executed within two years. Tales
of magnificent heroism illumine the blood-
stained pages of Babi history.
Ignorant
and unlettered as many of its votaries are,
and have been, they are yet prepared to
die for their religion, and fires of Smith-
field did not kindle a nobler courage than
has wet and defied the more refined tor-
ture-m~ongers of Teheran.
Of no small
account, then, must be the tenets of a
creed that can awaken in its followers so
rare and beautiful a spirit of self-sacri-
fice. From the facts that Babism in its
earliest years found itself in conflict with
the civil powers and that an attempt was
made by Babis upcn the life of the Shah
it has been wrongly inferred that the
movement was political in origin and Ni-
hilist in character.
I t  does not appear
from a study of the writings either of the
B i b  or his successors that there is any
foundation for such ' a suspicion.
. .
The charge of immorality seems to have
arisen partly from the malignant inven-
tions of opponents, partly from the much
greater freedom claimed for women by the
Bah, which in the oriental mind is scarcely
dissociable
from
profligacy of
conduct.
. . . If Bahiism continues t o  grow a t  iDs
present rate of progression, a time may
conceivably come when it will oust Moham-
medanism from the field in Persia. . . .
Since its recruits are won from the best
soldiers of the garrison whom it is attack-
ing, there is greater reason to believe that
i t  may ultimately prevail. . . . The pure
and suffering life of the Bib, his ignomi-
noue death, the heroism and martyrdom
of his followers, will appeal to many others
who can find no similar phenomena in the
contemporaneous records of Islam. . . .
XIV. Extracts from "The Gleam" by Sir
Francis Younphusband, 1923:
The story of the Bib as Mirza Ali No-
hammed called himself' was the story of
spiritual heroism unsLrpassed
in Soah-
hava's experience; and his own adventur-

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
Miss Efie Baker of Melbourne, Australia,
who travelled with Miss Martha Root
Bahb'i teacher and lecturer, on her notable)
trip through that country.

REFERENCE TO BAHA'~ MOVEMENT
nus soul was fired by it.
That a youth of
no social influence and no education should,
by the simple power of insight, be able to
pierce into the heart of things and see the
real truth, and then hold on to it with
such firmness of conviction and present it
with such suasion that he was able to con-
vince men that he was the Messiah and
get them to follow him to death itself, was
one of those splendid facts in human his-
tory that Svabhava loved to meditate on.
This was a true hero whom he would wish
to emulate and whose experiences ha would
profit by.
The Bib's pasionate sincerity
could not be doubted, for he had dven his
life for his faith. Ahd that theremust be
something in his message that appealed to
men, and satisfied their souls was witnessed
to by the fact that thousands gave their
lives in his cause and millions now follow
him.
If a young man could, in only six years
of ministry, by the sincerity of his pur-
pose and the attraction of his personality,
so inspire rich and poor, cultured and 11-
literate, alike, with belief in himself and
his doctrines that they would. reu~am
staunch, though hunted down and without
trial sentenced t o  death, sawn asunder,
strangled, shot, blown from guns; and if
men of high position and culture in Per-
sia, Turkey and Egypt in numbers to this
day adhere to his doctrines, his life must
t e  one of those events in the last hundred
years which is really worth study.
And
that studv fortunatelv has been made bv
the ~ & n & m a n  ~obineau and by profess&
E. G. Brown, sa that we are a'i?le to have
a faithful representation of its main fea-
testimony. . . .
He himself was but "a letter out of that
most mighty book, a dewdrop from that
limitless ocean."
The one to come would
reveal all mysteries and all riddles.
This
was the humility of true insight. And it
has had its effect.
His movement has
grown and expanded, and it has yet a great
future before it.
During his six years of ministry, four
of which were spent in captivity, he had
permeated all Persia with his ideas. And
since his death the movement has spread
to Turkey, Egypt, India and even into Eu-
rope and America. His adherents are now
numbered by millions.
The spirit whkh
pervades them, says Professor Brown,
1s
such that it can not fail to affect most
wowerfullv all subject to its influence."'
XV. Extract f y m  "The Christian Com-
monwealth,
January 22, 1915.
Ab-
dul-Bahi a t  Oxford.
'Abdn'l-Baha addressed a large and deeply
interested audience a t  Manebester Col-
lege, Oxford, on December 31.
The Per-
sian lea'der spoke in his native tongue,
Mirza Ahmed Sohrab intenpreting.
Prin-
cipal Estlin Carpenter presided, and in-
troduced the speaker by saying that they
owed the honour and pleasure of meeting
Abdu'l-Bahi to their revered friend, Dr.
Cheyne, whq was deeply interested in the
BahB'i teaching.
The Movement sprung
up during the middle of the last century
in Persia, with the advent of a young Mo-
hammedan who took to himself the title
of the Bbb (meaning door or gate through
which men could arrive a t  the inowledge
or truth of Gd), and who comn~enced
teaching in Persia in the year 1844.
The
purity of his character, the nobility of his
words, aroused great enthusiasm. He was,
however, subjected to great hostility by
the authorities, who secured his arrest and
imprisonment, and he was finally executed
in 1850.
But the movement went on and
the, writings of the Bbb, which had 'been
copious, were widely read. The movement
has been brought into India, Europe, and
the United States.
It does not seek to
create a new sect but to inspire all sects
with a deep fundamental love.
The late
Dr. Jowett once said to him that he had
been so deeply impressed with the tsach-
ings and character of
the Bcib that he
thought Babism, as the pTesent movement
w a s  then known might become the great-
est religious mobement since the birth of
Christ.

BAH6'f YEAR BOOK
CITIES OF EUROPE AND AMERICA VISITED BY 'ABW'L-BAHA
1911-1913
Thonon-les-Bains, Switzerland
Paris, France
Stuttgart, Germany
Budapest, Hungary
London, England
Clifton, England
Byfleet, England
Oxford, England
Edinburgh, Scotland
New York, N. Y.
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Washington, D. C.
Baltimore, Md.
Chicago, Illinois
Kenosha, Wi8.
Cleveland, Ohio
Cincinnati, Ohio
Pittsburgh, Pa.
Montclair, N. J.
West Englewood, N. J.
Jersey City, N. J.
Cambridge, Mass.
Boston, Maas.
Malden, Mass.
Medford, Mass.
Fanwood, N. J.
Morristown, N. J.
Philadelphia, Pa.
Dublin, N. H.
Green Acre, Eliot, Maine
Montreal, Quebec
Minneapolis, Minn.
St, Paul, Mimn.
Denver, CoLo.
Oakland, Calif.
Palo Alto, Calif.
San Francisco, Calif.
Sacramento, Calif.
Los Angeles, Calif.
Salt Lake City, Utah.
Pasadena, Calif.

LIST OF ORIENTAL TERMS FREQUENTLY USED IN BAHA'f LITER-
ATURE, WITH MODERN T'RANSLITERATION AND
ARRANGED ALPHABETICALLY
'Abidih
'Ahhas
'Abdu'l-Bahi
'Ahdu'l-Hamid
'Abdu'l-Husayn
'Abdu'llih
Abu'l-Fadl
'Adasiyyih
Adhirnayjin
Afnan
Aghsan
'Ahd
Ahmad
Ahsi'i
Ahv4z
'AkkP
'Ali
Allih-u-Ahhi
Alvah
Alvah-i-Salitin
Amin
Amru'llih
Anzali
~
q
i

Aqdae
'ArabistPn
+mi
Avashiq
Ayidi
Azal
'Azamat
'Aziz
Bib
Babu'l-Bib
Baghdad
Bah$,,
Baha i
Baha'u'llah
Bahiyyih
Bahji
Baluchist6n
Bandar'AbbBs
Birfurdsh
Basrih
Bitdm
BayLn
Bayt
Birjand
Bismi'llah
BukhBrA
Buritjird
Bushir
Bushruyih
Bushrd'i
Chihriq
DawlabAbad
Dhahih
Duzdab
b'aran
Fars
Firdawsi
Ganjih
Ciilan
Gul
Gulastan
Habib
Hadith
Haji
Hamadan
Haydar'Ali
Haykal
Himmat-AbAd
Husayn
Huvaydar
I ~ r i h i m
'Ilm
Imam
Iqan
Ir Ln
'Iraq
'Iraq-i-'Ajam
fsfahan
Ishqahid
Ishrhqat
Ishtihard
Isl&?n,,
Isma ihyyih
Istaribad
'~zzat
Jalil
Jamal
Jamal-i-Mubarak
Jd:b,
Ka blh
Kalimit
Kami1
Karand
Karhila
Kishan
Kawmu's-Sa'ayidih
Kawthar
KPzim
Kazimayn
Kirmin
Kirminshih
Khalkhal
Khaniqayn
Khayli-Khdb
Khurbsin
Khuy
Kitah-i-'Ahd
Kitib-i-Aqdas
Kurdistan
Lihijin
Lar
Lawh
Luristan
MahAbu'sh-Shuhadh
Mahmitd
Maqim
Makh
Maliyir
Marighih
Marhaba
Mashiyyat
Mashriqu'l-Adhkir
Mazindariiu
Mihdi
Milin
Mirzh
Mishkin-Qalam
Muhammad
Muhammarih
Mujtahid
Mulk
Mulli
Munirih
MustaghBth
Nahil
Najaf
Najaf-Abid
Ndqidin
Nasiru'd-Din
Nawrdz
Nayriz
NishAb6r
Ndr
Pahlavi
Qadiyan
Qahqahih
Oa'im
Qmsar
Qasr-i-Shirfn
Qawl
Qayydm
Qazvfn
Q6chPn
Quddus
Qudrat
Qum
Qur'bn
Qurratu'l-'Ayn
Raf sinjin
Rahim
Rahman
Rahmat
Rasht
Rawhani
Ridvin
Ruhu'llih
Sa bzivar
Sadratu'l-Muntahi
Samarqand
Sangsar
Sari
Shah
Shahid
Shahmirzid
Shihrtd
Sharaf
Shaykh
Shi'ih
Shiraz
Shushtar
Simnlu
Sisan
Sistan
Siyyid
Sufi
Sulayman
Sultin
Sultin-Abid
Sultanu'sh-Shuhada'
Sunni
Suratu'l-Haykal
Tabriz
Tdhirih
Tajalliyat
Taki
TLkur
Tarazit
Tarhiyat
Tashkand
Tawhid
Thurayya
Tihran
'UlA
'Ulami
Urdmiyyih
Vahid
Vahid
Vali
Varql
Vazir
Ya-BahP'u'l-Abhi
Yahya
Yazd
Zanjan
Zaynu'l4uqnarrahin

BAHA'I YEAR BOOK
Dr. J. E. Esslamont, distinguGhed Bahri'i teaclzer and author.

DR. ESSLEMONT
DR. J. E. ESSLEMONT
The following brief biographical sketch o f  the life of one df our most distinguished
EahrE'i teachers and authors, is cont&buted by the BaM'i Natianal Spjritual Assembly
of Ewland. Attached to and made a part of it is the appreciative ezpresswn of Shoglui
Effendi, Guardian of the Baha'i Cause.-EDITORS.
J
OHN Ebenezer Esslemont, who
passed away at Haifa November
22, 1925, was born on May 19, 1874,
the youagest son of John E. Eesle-
mont of Fairford, Cults, Aberdeen-
shire.
He received his preliminary educa-
tion at Ferryhill public school and
continued his studies at the Robert
Gordon College and ultimately at
Aberdeen University, where he grad-
uated with honors in April, 1898, ob-
taining not only the medical degrees
of Bachelor of Medicine and of Sur-
gery, but also a Philip Research
Scholarship at the University.
He
spent the second half of 1899 at
Berne and Strasburg, at both of
which places he wrote papers on his
research work, which were published
and considered valuable.
Returning to Scotland in Decem-
ber, 1899, Esslemont took up the po-
sition of assistant to Professor Cash
at Aberdeen University, which posi-
tion he held until 1901, when he went
to Australia, remaining there two
years. During this residence in Aus-
tralia, he married on December 19,
1902.
Early in his life Esslemont's health
proved a cause of trouble and anx-
iety, and in 1903 he was obliged to
leave Australia, returning to Aber-
deenshire, where he spent the sum-
mer, but found it necessary in the
winter of that year to proceed to
South Africa, the climate of which
country it was hoped would prove
beneficial to his pulmonary ailment.
He remained in South Africa for five
years, returning to his native coun-
try in 1908, when he obtained the
post of resident medical officer at the
Home
Sanatorium,
Southbourne,
Bournemouth, which he continued to
hold until 1923, when, owing to the
death of the proprietor, the Sanato-
rium was closed and Esslemont found
himself without medical occupation.
In 1924 he received a warm invi-
tation from Shoghi Effendi, Guard-
ian of the BahL'i Cause, asking him
to spend the winter at Haifa, and
early in November he left London,
proceeding direct to Port Said.
Writing from Malta, the only port
of call, on November 15th, Esslemont
spoke of a delightful voyage and of
feeling much improved in health.
He spent a day or two in Port Said,
where he was most warmly received
by the friends, and arrived at Haifa
on November 21st. Here he at once
devoted himself to the work of as-
sisting Shoghi Effendi in his multi-
farious correspondence, which work
he continued in spite of ill-health un-
til the end.
Such is a brief account of the ma-
terial side of Esslemont's life; it re-
mains now to say something of the
spiritual side, which continues and
will continue for evermore.
Whilst at Bournemouth in 1912 Es-
slemont, in association with several
other doctors, took up the question of
State medical service and in 1914 he
read a paper on this subject before
the British Medical Association at its
meeting at Bournemouth, which by
the attention it aroused helped great-
ly the deliberations of the Advisory
Committee on Public Health.
The
wife of one of Esslemont's associates
in this work, who had met 'Abdu'l-
BahL in London in 1911, first men-
tioned the BahA'i Cause to Esslemont

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
in December, 1914, and lent him
some pamphlets. He had been search-
ing for Truth in many directions, but
without finding that which could sat-
isfy his innate religious feeling; on
hearing, however, the EahB'i mes-
sage he was at once impressed by its
beauty and thoroughness; so much
so that without delay he procured all
books in English which dealt with the
subject.
Most truly applicable to
Esslemont are the words of the Be-
loved Master: "Blessed is he that the
Word of God had reached him and
had found his soul 'awake.' "
His progress in the study of the
Sacred Books was therefore rapid,
for already in 1915 he was writing
to the lady above-mentioned recom-
mending what books she should read ;
and in February, 1916, little more
than a twelve-month after he him-
self first received the Glad Tidings,
he wrote at length to a Bahi'i friend
in Manchester in terms which show
how thoroughly he had accepted the
BahB'i teachidgs and how profoundly
he had already studied them. Thus
he writes:
"We can each become like our
friend if we make the great surren-
der of self and selfishness and be-
come willing channels for the Divine
Spirit. There is no limit to what the
human spirit can achieve in the
strength of Divine Inspiration. The
germ of the Divine Nature is in
every man; only most of us are not
manifesting it.
Instead, we are
smothering it.
It is like a plant,
which needs sun and rain for its
growth, the Sun and Rain of the Di-
vine Love and Bounty. We have the
the outward appearance. It means
that our interest in and love for
everything in all God's universe
should vastly increase, but that we
should regard all outward appear-
ances but as the garments of the in-
ner realities, as dawning places for
the Glory of God. Oh! may people
all over the world soon turn to God,
as revealed in BahO'u'llBh, with hum-
ble and contrite hearts, begging for
His forgiveness and blessing and im-
ploring His mercy and bounty!
Then shall His Kingdom come in
men's hearts and the whole world be-
come one home and all mankind one
family."
This extract from one of Essle-
mont's early letters shows so clearly
the spirit which illumined. all his
words and actions, that its insertion
here will be forgiven by those who
read his stirring admonition and ap-
peal. That he himself did in very
truth turn to God as revealed by
BahB'u'llih, and that having so
turned, he never deviated by one
hair's breadth from the path of love
and righteousness is a fact known to
those who had the privilege of meet-
ing him and listening to his glowing
talks as well as to those who are ac-
quainted with him only through his
writings inspired as they are with
that same loving spirit which was so
apparent to those who knew him per-
nnnallv.
- -------"
Esslemont's work as a personal
teacher, apart from his letters, be-
gan in Bournemouth, where a group
of adherents to the Cause gathered
under his auspices, resulting in the
fnrmatinn of a Soiritual Assembly of
- L
power either to open our hearts to &z-&-&
the first
a
that h v e  and Bounty or to reject
position he continued to ocupy until
them. Only by turning our attention
he left England in 1924. In this eon-
and interest away from the world
neetion it may be mentioned that he
and turning them to God can we
was also thi representative of the
grow in spirit. Such turning means
Bournemouth group on the National
attending to the reality and inner
Spiritual Assembly of England, of
significance of things instead of to
which body he became Vice-Presi-

DR. ESSLEMONT
dent, and which benefited much by
his counsel and advice.
Not satisfied with studying the
Baha'i writings for himself alone,
which led him to learn Persian so as
to read them in the original language,
Esslemont set about writing for the
instruction of others. The first nine
chapters of his justly celebrated
book, "Baha'u'llah and the New Era,"
which were written during the
World War, were submitted to the
Beloved Master when peace led to the
reopening of communications with
Haifa, with the result that Esslemont
received an invitation from 'Abdu'l-
Bahl to visit Haifa, which he did in
the winter of 1919-20. During this
visit the Beloved Master discussed
the hook with the author, making
suggestions for its improvement, and
indeed read through and revised
some three and a half chapters,
which had been translated into Per-
sian for the purpose.
The third chapter relating to Ba-
hL'u'llLh was first published as a sep-
arate pamphlet, and it was proposed
to issue a new edition on the occasion
of the Conference on some living re-
ligions within the British Empire
which was held in London in the
autumn of 1924; on consideration,
however, it appeared that a more
general pamphlet would be both more
appropriate and more useful, land
thus "Bahi'u'llih and His Message"
came to be written by Esslemont,
who also wrote the small leaflet,
"What Is the Bahi'i Movement?'
It was not only by his printed
works that Esslemont became known
to the Bahi'i world, for he was an
indefatigable and voluminous corre-
espondent not only in English, but
also in Esperanto, of which universal
language he was a complete master.
Amongst his last labors during his
stay at Haifa in 1925 was the re-
vision of the Esperanto translation
of the above-mentioned leaflet which
had been prepared for t h ~
meeting
of the Universal Esperanto Congress
at Geneva in August of that year.
Another work on which he was also
engaged towards the close of his
earthly career was the translation
into German of his large book.
These evidences of Esslemont's la-
bors in the service of the Cause re-
main open to all, but of the loving
services which he so gladly and self-
lessly rendered to all with whom he
came into personal contact, only they
can give full account from the inmost
recesses of their hearts; but surely
all whom he helped will forever bear
in mind the inestimable benefits con-
ferred upon them by his words, and
more, perhaps, by his living example
of what a true Bahi'i should be, for
he was nigh unsurpassed in selfless-
ness, In utter devotion and obedience
to the EahB'i teachings, in love and
trustfulness to all his fellows.
No better appreciation of Dr. Es-
slemont and of his services to the
BahVi Cause can be given than that
contained in the following letter
which the Guardian of the Bahi'i
Cause wrote after the passing of him
who loved the Cause so well and
served it so faithfully:
"It is with feclings of overwhelm-
ing 'sorrow that I communicate to
you the news of yet another loss
which the Almighty, in His inscruta-
ble wisdom, has chosen to inflict upon
our beloved Cause. On the 22nd of
November, 1925-that memorable
and sacred day in which the Bahi'is
of the Orient celebrated the twin
Festivals of the Declaration of the
B&b and the Birthday of 'Abdu'l-
Bahi-Dr.
John E. Esslemont passed
on to the Abha Kingdom. His end
was as swift as it was unexpected.
Suffering from the effects of
a
chronic and insidious disease, he fell
at last a victim to the inevitable com-
plications that ensued, the fatal
course of which neither the efforts of

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
vigilant physicians nor the devoted
cares of his many friends could pos-
sibly deflect.
"He bore his sufferings with ad-
mirable fortitude, with calm resigna-
tion and courage. Though convinced
that his ailments would never hence-
forth forsake him, yet many a time
he revealed a burning desire that the
friends residing in the Holy Land
should, while visiting the Shrines,
implore the All-Merciful to prolong
his days that he may bring to a fuller
completion his humble share of serv-
ice to the Threshold of BahL'u'llLh.
To this noble request all hearts
warmly responded. But this was not
to be. His close association with my
work in Haifa, in which I had placed
fondest hopes, was suddenly cut
short. His book, however, an abid-
ing monument to his pure iniiention,
will, alone, inspire generations yet
unborn to tread the path of truth
and service as steadfastly and as
unostentatiously as was trodden by
its beloved author.
The Cause he
loved so well he served even unto his
last day with exemplary faith and un-
stinted devotion.
His tenacity of
faith, his high integrity, his self-
effacement, his industry and pains-
taking labors were traits of a char-
acter the noble qualities of which
will live and live forever after him.
To me personally he was the warmest
of friends, a trusted counsellor, an
indefatigable collaborator, lovable
companion.
"With tearful eyes I supplicate at
the Threshold of BahB'u'llBh-and
request you all to join-in my ardent
prayers, for the fuller unfolding in
the realms beyond of a soul that has
already achieved so high a spiritual
standing in this world. For by the
beauty of his character, by his knowl-
edge of the Cause, by the conspicuous
achievements of his book, he has im-
mortalized his name, and by sheer
merit deserved to rank as one of the
Hands of the Cause of God.
"He has been laid to rest in the
heart of that beautifully situated
BahL'i burial ground at the foot of
Carmel, close to the mortal remains
of that venerable soul, Haji Mirza
Vakilu'd-Dawlih,
the
illustrious
cousin of the BLb and chief builder
of the Mashriqu'l-Adhkkr of 'IshqL
bkd.
Pibrims visiting his grave
from far and near will, with pride
and gratitude, do honor to a name
that adorned the annals of an immor-
tal Cause.
"May he eternally rest in peace."

PART FOUR
I. The Relation of the BabA'i Cause to Modern
Progressive Movements.
11. The Unity of Civilization.
111. Equality of Men and Women.
IV. Esperanto and the BahB'i Teachings.
V. Some Tendencies Toward Unity in Religion.
VI. Science and Religion.
VII. Universal Education.
VIII. Racial Amity.
IX. The Economic Problem.
X. World Peace.

PART FOUR
THE RELATION OF 1WE BAHA'f CAUSE TO MODERN PROGRESSlVE
MOVEMENTS
BY RU'III AFN'AN
NE of the problems that oonfront Holy Spirit.
On the other hand,
a student of the Bahb'i Cause is
reaching beyond this small circle of
the position it occupies among the disciples, We inspired receptive souls,
other modern progressive movements. in all quarters of the globe and among
"Why is it," he asks, "that we see so
all races and religions, to further the
many societies, more or less con-
work by rending the veil of prejudice
temporary with the Cause, which up- and opening the eyes to the need of
hold similar views and aims? It can-
Divine help and fundamental reform.
not be a case of conscious plagiarism,
The Divine Power is behind all pro-
for in most cases the leaders of these
gressive movements.
BahB'u'llLh's
societies were absolutely ignorant of
teachings would have remained a
the BahP'i Movement, its founders utopia, never to be realized, if His
and principles. Can it be then that spirit, that is God's hand, had not
the Cause is merely eclectic, a move- stirred some souls to establish new
ment that has achieved nothing more movements and work, although in ap-
that to gather up ideas originated by
parent independence, yet for similar
others and to adopt them as its own?" aims. These souls are the enlight-
To answer this difficult, yet legiti-
ened teachers who have been showing
mate question, we have to remember
the world that material prosperity
that the principal teaching of the should not be the aim of life; that
Cause is that its founders were di- through appropriate taxation and
vinely inspired.
It is not a man- education the rich can help the bet-
made Movement. It is "the Cause of
terment of the social and economic
God." Man's affairs have fallen into conditions of the poor; that war
such a tangled condition, his prob- should cease; that nationalism should
lems have become so complex and
give way to a higher and nobler
difficult, his motives so selfish and
policy of internationalism; that a
his aims so material, that no real League of Nations should be estab-
solution is possible without a funda- lished to settle international disputes ;
mental and complete reform.
that an international language should
God, therefore, having thegood of
be created to become a universal
His people at heart, undertook this medium of communication and elim-
gigantic task, and dealt with it in two inate misunderstandings.
ways. On the one hand, He sent His
In a word, these progressive move-
Prophet with a perfect code of laws ments which have sprung up during
to teach some chosen disciples, raise the ninteenth century have been in-
them to whole-hearted devotlon and
struments used by God to make the
obedience, and make them active world more receptive to His Cause.
leaven to permeate the world with the They have been like the plowing and

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
harrowing by which the farmer pre-
pares the ground for his crop. And
we can measure the extent of this
preparation if we take the pains to
find out how much nearer now are the
popular views to the Teachings of the
Cause, than they were at the begin-
ning of the last century. Since Ba-
h6'u'llLh first proclaimed His prin-
ciples, the world has, through the
work of these progressive teachers
and the various societies they have
founded, advanced so much towards
the BahL'i teachings that we would
not be in the least astonished, if from
now on people would join the Cause
in whole ,groups rather than as iso-
lated individuals. As some one aptly
said, "if the Bahl'is do not make the
world BahL'i, it will, through its
natural development, become so."
This view may give rise to an-
other question, namely, "If these
movements aim at the same thing,
could we not join them rather than
the Cause, and through them bring
about the Millennium?"
Though
many points may be advanced in
answer to such a suggestion we need
mention here only a few.
First, these movements have taken
up only one or two of the principles
and focused attention upon them.
They therefore could not do more
than partially improve the social con-
dition of the world.
Moreover, in
many of these movements we find
that the teachings are either pre-
sented in a less perfect form than the
Cause, or are incorporated with other
less desirable doctrines.
BahQ'i Teachings are inclusive. If
we study the principles laid down by
BahL'u'llLh, we will see they are in-
terdependent and have to be taken
up all together in order to achieve
the desired result. His ideal League
of Nations, for example, cannot be
realized unless the Unity of Man-
kind be proclaimed ; unless the spirit
of narrow nationalism be abolished ;
unless the economic problems be
solved and class hatred cease to breed
internecine war ; unless inter-re-
ligious disputes be forgotten; unless
man become more religious and the
idea of the League be planted in his
heart.
Two alternatives are, therefore,
left to us. Either to accept the Cause
and thereby uphold all these teach-
ings in their purest and most practi-
cable form, or to unite all the other
progressive movements under one
banner, reform their principles, and
marshal them for the great Armaged-
don.
The latter alternative is im-
practicable, not only because of the
jealousy and want of harmony be-
tween these various movements, but
also because it lacks two important
factors. In the first place there is a
want of that dynamic power, that out-
pouring of the spirit, which is so con-
s~icuous in the Bah6'i Movement.
This executive Power is the only
thing that can save a high principle
from remaining a mere theory, an
ideal never to be realized.
In the second place the Cause has
a brilliant history behind it, the his-
tory of Divine Founders and noble
and valiant martyrs.
No one can
deny the effect past achievement has
in determining the development of a
nation. It forms a source of ideals
and examples on which future gene-
rations can draw. What Cause shows
a more brilliant history and greater
heroes to inspire its followers and
rouse them to glorious effort?
Why has not the Bahl'i Cause
spread more quickly? "If the Cause
occupies such a high and sure posi-
tion," it may be said, "why has it not
spread as quickly as the other, less
important,
movements?"
Before
answering this question we may re-
mind ourselves that the rapidity with
which a movement spreads is no sure
measure of its importance. History
shows us quite definitely that the
movements which spread most rap-
idly were not generally the ones to

UNITY OF CIVILIZATION
last longest.
Christianity, on the
other hand, which after twenty cen-
turies still retains its millions of
votaries, had to take far slower steps
and await a century or two before at-
tracting much attention from the
world.
Moreove , how could we expect the
people to understand and appreciate
in a short period of time such a num-
ber of teachings and accept so high
a claim as the Baha'i Movement puts
forward ?
Other movements in most cases up-
hold only one or two principles, the
comprehension of which is far easier.
One short leaflet is enough to con-
vince one that the League of Nations,
though far from being perfect, is a
step towards the ideal. On the other
hand, months and perhaps years of
continuous study and meditation may
be needed to awaken a soul to the im-
portance and greatness of the Bahd'i
Cause. This i s  not due to anv inher-
ent defect in the teachings but to the
magnitude of the issues involved.
Those of the Bahi'is who have had
some experience in teaching the
Cause and advocating its principles
will agree, that though many become
great admirers of the movement,
comparatively few are willing fully
to identify themselvcs with it. In the
majority of cases the reason is that
the people have come to he suspicious
of any movement that has a religious
element in it. They have seen so
much lack of sincerity in certain pro-
fessedly religious people that they are
apt to generalize and attribute this
characteristic to all.
It is for the
Baha'is, therefore, to live up to the
life their leaders have so perfectly
exemplified for them, and by actual
deeds prove to these people that this
generalization is unwarranted and
that they must set aside this sus-
picion and render to the Cause its
due honor and support.
In conclusion I may quote 'Abdu'l-
Bahfi, who said: "The spirit of the
Cause is pulsating in the arteries of
mankind." It is the spirit of the
Cause that has aroused responsive
souls to throw aside their antiquated
beliefs, found new schools of thought,
give their lives for progressive aims
and serve noble Causes. But should
their adherents continue to follow
these leaders once the greater and
more comprehensive movement is
proclaimed? Should they he satisfied
with small and limited things when
the nobler and greater Cause com-
mands their allegiance?
THE UNITY OF CIVILIZATION
BY Y. S. TSAO
1'. S. Tsao, the President of T s i w  Hua College, i s  a Yale graduate a d  his wlfe n
charming. American lady. TsCg H z ~ a  Colleue ,was founded i n  1911 as the result of the
return to Chiina, by the United States gocernment, of ths Boxer indemnity.- EDITORS.
A
FEW weeks ago I had the privi-
sality of
Religion."
Civilization
lege of hearing an address by Dr.
without unity is not civilization-but
Luce, entitled "Interpreting the Signs
superficiality; religion without uni-
of the Time." The speaker, dream- versality is not religion but super-
ing of a Utopia, asked himself what
stition or dogmatism.
are the signs leading to a millennium
One of the most' remarkable move-
on earth.
I thought these signs
ments toward the unity of civiliza-
should at least first lead to "The
tion was the World Conference on
Unity of Civilization and the Univer-
Education held in San Francisco.

BAHA'I YEAR BOOK
The sessions were devoted to a dis-
cussion of education as a means of
eliminating the ignorance and injust-
ice causing hatred and misunder-
standing amony nations.
The call
which went out to one thousand con-
tacts in 73 different countries con-
tained the following objectives; to
promote friendship, justice and good-
will among the nations of the earth;
to bring about a world-wide tolerance
of the rights and privileges of all na-
tions, regardless of race or creed; to
develop an appreciation of the value
of inherited gifts of nationality
through the centuries of development
and progress; to secure accurate and
adequate information in textbooks
used in the schools of the different
nations; to produce a national com-
radeship; to inculcate in the minds
and hearts of the rising generations
the spiritual values necessary to carry
forward the principles emphasized
at the Washington Conference; and
finally, to emphasize the essential
unity of mankind, making clear the
suicidal nature of war, and the ne-
cessity of peace.
The opening meetings were at-
tended by from ten to eighteen thou-
sand people interested in this move-
ment.
An eye-witness said: "To
stand before the plenary conference
and look into the faces of the world,
a representation wide-spread, not a
few leading countries but the nations
of the world who sat together and
earnestly deliberated, not for selfish
interests but for a great humanistic
motive, sent a thrill through one.
Constantly one felt that it was here,
-the greatest fundamental truths,
the potent forces which can make hu-
manity better, more tolerant, more
faithful, more virtuous, more devout
-will be set in motion."
Many will be found to ridicule the
idea that any real progress in unity
has ever been made, or that the
world can ever be envisaged except
as an irksome enclosure of rival
armed forces thirsting for the fray.
But there is a quiet but well founded
belief that the forces tending to unity
in the world are different in quality,
incomparably greater in scope than
those which make for disruption.
Discord is explosive and temporary;
harmony rises slowly but dominates
the final chord.
The great World War has certainly
brought home the lesson of economic
interdependence among nations, and
althoutgh President Wilson's ideal was
not fully realized in the League of
Nations, subsequent events have de-
cidedly brought back to the thinking
minds
such
works
as
Norman
Angell's "Great Illusion," Fayle's
"The Great Settlement
J' and Keyne's
courageous attacks against the rep-
aration provisions of the Treaty of
Versailles, and recently even Kant's
Perpetual Peace had new editions
brought out.
In a more recent work published by
the Cambridge University Press, en-
titled, "The Wider Aspects of Edu-
cation," which contains papers by
Dr. G. P. Gooch, he as a historian
called the doctrine of the unfettered
sovereignty of the individual state
as "the curse of the modern world."
He said in part, "For a thousand
years roughly from St. Augnstine to
Machiavelli, from the fifth century
to the fifteenth, the conception of the
unity of civilization dominated Eu-
rope.
They called Europe the Res
Publica Chrigtiana-the
Christian
Chmmonwealth-and
they believed
in this 'great conception of the unity
of civilized mankind.
It was only
about 400 years ago, when the great
political thinker Machiavelli taught
the conception of the sovereignty of
the State, making every State su-
preme, responsible only to itself,
without any obligations to other
States, without any obligations to the
community of mankind, and without
paying any more than lip homage
either to a divine ruler of mankind

UNITY OF CIVILIZATION
or to the divine voice within. What
Machiavelli began was continued by
men like Hobbes in England and
Hegel in Germany, and it has become
something like an established prin-
ciple of statesmen and of publicists
in every country in the world. For
the last four centuries therefore there
has been a struggle going on for the
soul of man between the doctrine of
world-citizenship and the newer doct-
rine of purely secular and national
politics."
He regards the Great War as the
inevitable result and the final dis-
proof of the truth and value of nar-
row-headed and narrow-minded na-
tionalism and he believes that the
best thought and the best mind of the
day in all countries without excep-
tion is turning to the conception of
world-citizenship, brought up-to-date,
transferred from a theological to an
ethical foundation, and enlarged un-
til it embraces, at any rate, all the
civilized countries of the world. This
process has been assisted not only by
the bankruptcy of the doctrine of
sovereignty which was revealed by
the Great War, but also by our ex-
perience of the results of the struggle.
He believes it will take a very long
time for this conception to work it-
self into the consciousness and the
sub-consciousness of statesmen, of the
man in the street, and of the school-
master and of the author of school
history; but it has got to come, and it
will come. He is, perfectly certain
that those of us who are connected
with teaching and the teaching pro-
fession will be gravely neglecting our
duties if we do not do all that lies in
our power first to convince ourselves
of this fundamental fact of the unity
of civilization and the mutual obliga-
tion of all the members of the civil-
ized family of man, and in the second
place, to pass on this great revealing
and inspiring conception to those
with whom we come in contact, and
to those whose training is given into
our bands.
Recently, I was profoundly stirred
by a passage which appears in a book
meant to train military leaders. It
says, "Under the old idea, patriotism
consisted in doing one's utmost to
bring power, honor and glory to one's
own nation, even, if expedient and
necessary at the expense of other na-
tions. The true conception of pa-
triotism is of a higher order-to
bring power, honor and glory to the
state through honest effort, through
good government, through unselfish-
ness and not conquest, through
friendship toward the other nations
of
the earth and especially the
weaker, through making the name
and flag of the state honored and re-
spected among all nations-and all
this not alone for its own sake but for
the benefit of humanity and the race.
Such a conception does not belittle
patriotism, it ennobles it. Neither a
man nor a nation can exist worthily
for his own or its own sake alone.
Both have a part and a duty toward
others in lifting civilization to a high-
er plane and in contributing perma-
nent values to the life of the civilized
world. This is the true conception
of patriotism-and nationalism."
Two years ago, the writer had the
opportunity to address the leading
educators of the country at an an-
nual conference and the conclusion
was a revised version of a Confucian
passage so-called "The New Great
Learning." Confucius said:
"The ancients who wished to illus-
trate illustrious virtue throughout
the world, first ordered well their own
states. Wishing to order well their
states, they first regulated their
families ; wishing to regulate their
families they first cultivated their
persons ; wishing to cultivate their
persons, they first rectified their
hearts; wi~hing to rectify their
hearts, they first sought to be sin-

YEAR BOOK
cere in their thoughts ; wishing lo be
sincere in their thoughts, they first
extended to the utmost of their
knowledge, such extension of knowl-
edge lay in the investigation of
things."
In the light of modern knowledge,
I advocated
the employment of
Science in the investigation of things
and in the completion of knowledge;
the use of religion, ethics and philos-
ophy of life to make sincere one's
thoughts, to rectify one's heart and
to cultivate one's person; the adop-
tion of social sciences for the regula-
tion of one's family and the govern-
ment of a stale; and to adopt the
conception of Unity of Civilization
and the Universality of Religion in
order to illustrate illustrious Virtue
throughout the world.
While the idea of the sovereignty
of the state has limited the scope of
civilization by petty nationalism,
most great religions claim to be uni-
versal. However, the religions have
not made good their claim.
Mr. Rockefeller, Jr., before a Bible
Class of two hundred men in New
York, said that modern intellect has
outstripped religion in the headlong
progress of modern times. He quoted
from a recent article by Winston
Churchill, present Chancellor of the
Exchequer of the British Empire, as
follows: "The ideas of 1924 are
marching on and are being perfected
in the armies of the world under the
surface of peace. Mankind has got
into its hands the tools by which it
can unfailingly accomplish its own
extermination."
"Why is this so?" Mr. Rockefeller
asked, and he answered his own ques-
tion.
"Because the development of man's
spiritual character has not kept pace
with his intellect.
Civilization, the
accumulation of mind and matter,
has temporarily outstripped religion.
Religion must quicken its pace, other-
wise man will not wake in time to
save himself from the nightmare of
war."
As illustrations of religion applied
to human affairs, Mr. Rockefeller
cited hospitals, schemes for housing,
child labor laws, factory laws. "In
back of these manifestations, whether
consciously or not," he said, "is the
Christian spirit. The operation of
man's sympathy is the flower of our
spiritual idealism.
If men are to
continue to live together in our mod-
ern closely knit society," Mr. Rocke-
feller declared, "they must be guided
by principles springing from love of
God, hence love of our brother. Al-
though civilization may temporarily
have outstripped its religion, it has
not outgrown it."
Let each one ask himself or herself,
"Has intellect or civilization, modern
necessities of life and nervous pas-
sions outstripped my own abiding re-
ligious faith?" To be more concrete,
"If your faith is the Fatherhood of
God of Love, can you love mankind as
your b r o t h e r ? ' W h y  cannot this
text continually ring in our ears:
"Forgive them, for they know not
what they do." Has it not been said
of a great soul that when his pet dog
upset his candle in his library and
burnt his manuscript upon which he
had devoted many years of study to
complete, his only displeasure was
the exclamation, "Diamond, Dia-
mond! Little do you know the mis-
chief you have done!" If we cannot
get this forgiving and sympathetic
spirit to permeate our being then re-
ligion becomes only a Sunday suit.
Since the war, German thinkers
have been busily occupied in develop-
ing new philosophies, and in spite of
starvation and social chaos, with a
certain part of the German people,
the physical discomforts of life seem
to have created a spiritual need more
urgent than the want of food. Phil-

UNITY OF CIVILIZATION
osophical works were purchased by
the members of the middle class by
the hundreds of thousands. For in-
stance, the sale of Chamberlain's
"Foundations of 19th Century Civili-
zation" has reached 150,000 copies.
Vaihinger's "Philosophy of the As
If" 50,000, Spengler's "Decline of
Western Civilization" 70,000 and
Keyserling's "A Philosopher's Log"
50,000.
Count Keyserling is a member of a
noble German family of the Russian
Baltic provinces dispossessed by the
Revolution.
The social and moral
chaos of his generation drove him to
despair, so he undertook a trip
around the world as a student of
creeds and philosophies.
"He tried
to feel and think like a Buddhist in
Ceylon, a Brahman in India, a Con-
fucianist in China, a Japanese in
Japan and an American in the United
States." The record of his spiritual
metamorphoses was first published in
1918 as "A Philosopher's Log." His
conclusions might be summarized as
follows: "All facts-and all creeds-
are but differer~t ezpressions of one
spiritual meaning; they are the only
means by which we can gain cogni-
zance of the real world of spiritual
facts; deeper understanding of their
meaning will lead to greater power
and perfection; and there is no hu-
man progress but this improvement
of our understanding."
This philosophical acknowledgment
of the universal origin of spiritual
life is quite recent, but even as early
as 1905, Dr. Charles Cuthbert Hall,
the President of the Union Theologi-
cal Seminary, observed the growing
repugnance on the part of ministers
and laymen, to old forms of denomi-
national subscription.
In circles of
culture there is coming a truer sense
of proportion touching the legitimate
functions of the church, he declared.
Undeveloped conceptions of unity
and movements of life and love are
in the air, moving freely as on the
wings 01 eagles and unconsciously ig-
noring formal lines of division be-
neath.
Meantime, the advancing
philosophy of religion, the enriching
discoveries of
history and arch-
aeology, the pressure of social prob-
lems, the new cosmopolitanism, and
above all the constructive results of
Biblical criticism are bringing to-
gether many of the best minds and
of the most consecrated souls upon a
platform of Christian belief and ef-
fort incompatible with aggressive
sectarianism, and independent of de-
nominational subdivision. The tenor
of this sentiment is not revolutionary
but evolutionary ; not destructive but
constructive.
This crystallizing of
unorganized sentiment into a reinter-
pretation of the church on non-sec-
tarian lines must be through the
centralizing power of the Eternal
P u t h  lifted up and drawing all men
unto itself, with the vitalizing power
of the Eternal Spirit giving liberty
unto every man.
After prophesying the gradual
breaking down of the artificial bar-
riers of sectarianism and denomina-
tionalism, thereby giving religious
life a freer development in a wider
field, Dr. Hall described his hopes en-
tertained towards the people of the
East. "When one stands in the heart
of the venerable East; feels the at-
mosphere charged with religious im-
pulse; reads on the faces of the peo-
ple marks of the unsatisfied soul ; con-
siders the monumental expressions
of the religious idea in grand and en-
during architectural forms, then the
suggestion, that all this means noth-
ing-that it bears no witness to the
Divine in man seeking and finding a
partial and inadequate self-fulfill-
ment-that it is but to be stamped
out and exterminated before Chris-
tianity can rise upon its ruins-be-
comes an unthinkable suggestion. I
look with reverence upon the hopes
and y e a r n i n  g s of non-Christian
faiths, believing them to contain

EAB. BOOK
flickering and broken lights of God,"
and "And nothing is more certain
than that the common essence of
Christianity lends itself to expres-
sion in the terms of the East. Our
Lord Himself was an Oriental, and no
imagination can picture Him, with-
out violence to the sense of truth,
except in the garb and manner of
the East.
Christianity would have
overspread the East ere now had it
not been forced upon the East in
unwelcome identification with the
manners and customs and tempera-
ments and dogmas and military
governments of an alien and inex-
plicable West."
"Finally, the Christianization of
the world suggests a more complete
and
full-orbed
interpretation
of
Christianity for the world, when the
E~ast shall supplement and fulfill the
West by contributing truth seen from
her point of view; mediated through
her experience."
I have quoted lengthily in order to
show how even twenty years ago re-
ligious thinkers were aiming at unity
in civilization and universality in re-
ligious life. More recently, the reli-
gious views are growing even more
liberal, to wit, the teachings of Dr.
Fosdick of New York and the ser-
mons of Dean Inge of London.
The prophecy of Dr. Hall, has in a
measure been realized in the teach-
ings of many well known move-
ments, more or less religious, which
have been organized in recent years,
but I shall confine myself here to the
teachings of the BabP'i Movement as
taught by Bahi'u'llih and 'Abdu'l-
Bahi, which mean "The Glory of
God" and "The Servant of God."
"The BahP'i revelation is not an
organization. The Bahb'i Cause can
never be confined to an organization.
The Bahl'i revelation is the spirit of
this age. It is the essence of all the
highest ideals of this century. The
Bahl'i Cause is an inclusive move-
ment; the teachings of all religions
and societies are found here. Chris-
tians,
Jews,
Buddhists,
Muham-
madans, Zoroastrians, Theosophists,
Freemasons, Spiritualists, et al., find
their highest aims in this Cause.
Socialists and philosophers find their
theories fuliy developed in this reve-
lation."
The Bahl'i revelation, which had
its rise in Persia in the year 1844,
today has become known throughout
the world. "It is not so much a new
religion as Religion renewed and uni-
fied."
This unique movement for social
and spiritual reconstruction was first
centered in a radiant youth called
the Bib, whose mission it was to pro-
claim the coming of a great world
messenger.
Many European his-
torians have described the wonderful
charm of this pure-hearted hero of
progressive religion, who was mar-
tyred in 1850 after six years of bril-
liant teaching.
Bahl'u'lllh, a Persian noble, then
appeared as the one heralded by the
Bib. He announced the dawn of a
new age, an age when brotherhood
and peace should cover the earth even
as the waters cover the sea. The prin-
ciples he advocated, however, were
too universal for the limited minds of
his contemporaries. He and a few of
his follov~ers were driven by the re-
actionary powers of Persia into exile
and prison, and at last, in 1868, were
immured in the desolate barracks of
Akka in Syria.
But the persecutions of men can-
not extinguish the light of God's holy
spirit when it shines from the heart
of his prophets.
From the "Most
Great Prison" of Akka, Bah6'u'lllh
spread his gospel of unity and love
throughout Western Asia. In 1892,
at the end of forty years of exile and
imprisonment, he passed away, leav-
ing his eldest son, 'Abdu'l-Bahl as
the appointed expounder of his word

EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN
and the promulgator of his Cause,
the "Center of the Covenant."
Under the guidance of 'Abdu'l-
BahL the BahB'i message has been
carried to all lands and all religions.
It has bound Christians and Muham-
madans, Buddhists and Parsis, Jews
and Hindus, into the most spiritual
brotherhood
the world has ever
known.
The BahL'is believe that inis is the
beginning of that Golden Age upon
earth, the age of universal peace and
love when, as Cnrist foretold, men
"shall come from the east and from
the west, and from the north and
from the south, and shall sit down
in the Kingdom cf God."
"The BahC'i teachings unify the re-
ligions of the world into one uni-
versal religion.
It proves that the
essence of the original teaching of
all those religions was the same,
though they have grown far apart
because of additions in the form of
dogmas, theology and rituals com-
bined with the ambitions of different
leaders."
I have marshalled forth evidences
to prove that the conception of Unity
in Civilization and Universality in
Religion are already in existence.
These comprehensive conceptions are
very satisfying, although it may take
a long time before they are fully
realized in the world.
Mueh suffering and aamage have
been caused to the world and hu-
manity in the name of civilization
and religion, which are too much a
heterogenous conglomeration of in-
consistencies.
Without order, sys-
tem, comprehensibility, consistency,
and unity, the best civilization and
the best religion can but be partial
and inadequate truths, containing
only flickering and broken light of a
divine purpose.
Such conceptions
cannot satisfy the questing soul, nor
can they give that unruffled serenity
of outlook upon life as a whole. Only
Civilization with Unity and Religion
with Universality can have the ring
of finality.
THE EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN
BY DR. ORROL HARPER
I
N this day of universal awakening
the sediment of old ideas is brought
to the surface, and revealed in un-
garnished nudity. It is as if a clarify-
ing prod had stirred to its depths the
ocean of life and brought into view
all the debris that human ignorance
and misconception have collected for
ages.
Placed in bold relief by the sun-
light of analysis and reason the crude
barrenness of ancient ideas unfolds.
Opinion takes on perspective and vi-
sion, understanding becomes more
vital, reality more clear.
Humanity, beinz roused from its
sleep of stagnation, is gradually
awakening to the consciousness of a
limitless self. It sees in potential
possibility manifestations of all life.
It makes the discovery that all phe-
nomena are produced by a varied
combination and balance of negative
and positive charges of electronic
energy.
Humanity ranges its study from
the smallest simple element to the
largest and most complicated bodies
and planets, and through such in-
vestigation it becomes known that

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
Dr. and Mrs. K. M. Foujdar of Bombay, who were married February
2, 1925. Mrs. Foujdar was Miss Shirin M. Irani. She holds a unique
position as the first Eastern woman to be able to speaio i n  public i n  the
East.

EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN
the same law that governs the snnal-
lest particle of matter applies also
to the largest bodies in creation.
The principle of opposites is the
law by which all manifestations of
life on this earth plane exist and be-
come known. Contrast is the means
used to make us appreciate the true
worth of all things.
Would we appreciate sunshine if it
never rained? If hatred and ani-
mosity did not exist would we under-
stand love and kindness? If there
were no ignorance would we be con-
scious of knowledge? If poverty did
not exist would we be able to enjoy
wealth? If woman had not suffered
from the cave-man would she be able
to appreciate the co-operative man?
If woman did not exist would man
be in existence?
No!
Man and woman are the two com-
ponent parts of humanity.
With
either element lacking the human
race could not exist, and with either
element undeveloped the race as a
whole stagnates.
In centuries past woman has been
the helpless, uneducated, unhonored
part of mankind. As far back as
historical records go woman's chief
sphere of activity has been the home.
Her time has been so completely
taken up with household duties and
the rearing of children that her in-
tellectual growth has suffered.
Formerly in the Orient women
were not even considered as human
beings. Certain Arab tribes counted
them in with their livestock. In their
language, the noun for "woman" also
meant "donkey"; that is, the same
name applied to both, and a man's
wealth was accounted by the num-
ber of these beasts of burden he pos-
sessed.
The worst insult one could
hurl at a man was to call out, ''Thou
womail !"
The American Indian in an un-
civilized state allowed his squaw to
rear a family and at the same time
do all the hard labor of the day, while
he sat around and smoked or fought
in battle.
What a difference exists today!
Civilization has advanced.
Woman
is awake to her identity. She is be-
coming conscious that she is the equal
and complement of the masculine
element of humanity.
Education is freeing her from the
bondage of ignorance.
The un-
trained, uneducated, inexperienced,
suppressed half of the body of man
has shaken off its paralysis.
As
woman
receives
the
intellectual
stimulus that can only come by con-
tact with other minds, she is develop-
ing strength and learning how to ful-
fill her purpose in life, that of being
the equal and complement of man, in
fact the mother of all men.
Lack of development of either half
of the human race delays progress.
If either wing of the bird of human-
ity is weak or broken the bird can-
not soar to its greatest heights.
But the fact that woman has not
always been conscious of her powers,
has not always been the life and in-
spiration that she is today, has not
always contributed her intellectual
gifts to the intelligence of the race,
makes her even more appreciated,
now that she is learning how to
strengthen that weakened wing of the
human bird.
A sweeping survey of woman's ac-
tivity in the world proves it to he
extensive.
A large group of prog-
ressive mothers are to be seen, who
are educating themselves so that
they in turn can adequately train
their children.
A second class of women is des-
cribed by an author in The Living
Age, who writes, "Although home
duties may be the appropriate func-
tion for tke majority of women, there
is in the social life of today a very
large class of young women who are
perfectly capable of doing what was

once supposed to be man's exclusive
work-and doing it well."
Some specific examples of this
class are:
Margaret Kelly, Assistant Director
of the United States Mint.
Mrs. J. C.
McRee,
business
woman of Atlanta, Ga., who in 1918
bought the fixtures of a tea room
going out of business for $200. Two
years later she refused $150,000 for
it.
Dr. Alice Hamilton, one of Amer-
ica's most distinguished physicians,
for six years traveled over the
country for the United States De-
partment of Labor, and later spent
one half of each year at Harvard Uni-
versity where she was one of the
faculty.
In reply to the opponents of
woman's new activity, Gertrude Ath-
erton in the Yale Review says, "You
forget that no woman can hold a
man's job if she is inefficient and that
many men are cheerfully permitting
their wives to support them."
Women of a third class have been
accused of being industrial usurpers.
But this idea has been proved
faulty by C. P. Neil, Commissioner
of Labor, who listed four of the six
great divisions of modern industry
as woman's industry, by right of her
priority in them. Look at the range
of the four :-
1. Textile industries
(c o t t o n ,
woolen, linen manufacturers.)
2. Cloth and serving trades (all
garment manufacturers.)
3. Manufacturers of food and kin-
dred products (including bever-
ages, bakeries, pickle factories,
candy kitchens, etc.)
4. Domestic service (supervision
of hosteleries, a p a r t m e n  t
houses, restaurants.)
cleaners, hotel proprietors, men gar-
ment cutters and fitters, apartment
house superintendents, men bakers,
chefs, pickle makers and brewers, it
is they who are the usurpers-not
the women, who are but following
their traditional pursuits from home
to factory.
A fourth class is made up of women
who are demonstrating the dynamic
ability to have babies and careers
both. Lady Astor, a member of the
British parliament, and also a mother
of five children is an interesting ex-
ample. Lady Astor says, "The pearl
of a great price that I am striving for
is to take into public life what every
man gets from his mother-unselfish-
ness, vision, courage, cleanness-the
real kind which helps them to live up
to what is best in them. There is so
much good in all men, but only good
women can bring it out."
Henry Norman in the Forum says,
"Women are among the truly great
artists of the world; some of them
are great musicians, many o'i them
great fiction writers."
Every cause that is of lasting bene-
fit to the race is usually watered with
the blood of martyrs. The cause of
the awakened woman is no exception.
Kurratu'l-Ayn, a beautiful Persian
poetess, was the first woman to give
her life to help establish freedom for
all women. In 1863, in a land where
girls received no education, in a
country where custom demanded
thick protecting veils for all women
at all times, among a people who con-
sidered it a disgrace to be the parents
of a girl baby, Kurratu'l-Ayn arose
and throwing aside her veil, fearlessly
proclaimed the dawn of a New Age
in which superstition, fanatical cus-
tom and ignorance would be done
away with. For her action Kurratu'l-
Avn was killed, her body was thrown
If "usurpation" is the word it is igto a well, and stones-were heaped
the men carders and weavers, men
upon her. Like a seed that human
who come to the house with vacuum
body was buried, so that the spirit

EQUALITY OF MEN AND WOMEN
of progress that animated it might
come forth as a new plant to carry
freedom, courage, intellectual and
spiritual growth to all women.
The most important question of
this age is the establishment of Uni-
versal Peace. Since 1888 an Inter-
national Council of Women, represen-
ting 42 countries and 36,000,000
women, has been meetinlg; once every
five years to promote unity and mu-
tual understanding between all as-
sociations of women, working for the
common welfare of humanity.
Its
watchwords are peace, co-operation
and progress.
To him who considers man superior
to woman, Professor Burton, late
President of the Minnesota and Wis-
consin Universities said, "Both male
and female elements are to be found
in all people-the predominance of
one determining the sex. The differ-
ence between men and women is not a
question of infenority or superiority,
but a difference in kind and func-
tion."
Gertrude Atherton in the Yale Re-
view says, "Man and woman are one
heing split in two, differently sexed
for the benefit of the race. Men and
women are made up of the same in-
gredients.
The preponderance of
good or bad, weakness or strentgth, is
in the individual not the sex."
An author in the Living Age says,
"What women lack in weight and
muscular power they make up in as-
siduity, conscientiousness and keen
endeavor."
'Abdu'l-BahS,
the Center of a
world wide movement to establish
universal peace, said that this is the
age of woman and that there is not
a position held at any time by man,
that certain women will not occupy.
At this point I see some scholarly
gentlemen, who still have their noses
buried in the musty emptiness of the
past, shake emphatic objection. The
monster called Sex-Antagonism has
raised his head and must pcrforce be
recognized.
I looked the fellow straight in the
eye and am surprised to discover that
he has a goodly countenance.
He
whom I have suspected of being a
destroyer smiles benignly, and before
I can analyze the thrill of pleasure
that permeates my being he begins to
speak, "I am that force which awak-
ens in all men and women the con-
sciousnes of a better self. It is I who
stimulates undeveloped talent into ac-
tivity. It is I who promotes true
happiness, harmony and co-operation.
It is I who helps to fulfill the plan of
creation. I am called "Sex-Antagon-
ism," I should be named "Competi-
tion in Self-expression."
Sex-An-
tagonism is the seen and unseen con-
flict which exists between the sexes
for supremacy and self-expression.
"When man was a barbarian and
woman was his slave, the qualities of
the better self found very feeble ex-
pression!'
This brings to my mind an idea
obtained from Vance Thompson in
his book, "Woman."
Thompson
finds the explanation of the modern
feminist movement in the sex-special-
ization man has imposed upon
woman. He says that for ages man
has insisted that woman be a "female
being" rather than a "human being."
The voice of Sex-Antagonism in-
terrupts my train of thought, "Today
civilization has advanced. The fem-
inist movement has demonstrated
that the feminine is the equal and
complement of the masculine element
of humanity."
A quotation from W. L. George in
"Woman and Tomorrow" is reflected
on the mirror of my mind.
Mr.
George says, "Feminism is broadly
the furthering of the interests of
women, philosophically the leveling
of the sexes, and specifically the so-
cial and political emancipation of
woman."

BAHb'f YEAR BOOK
"I," Sex-Antagonism
continues, crn woman wants a partner not a
"Am the one who ushers in the great- master."
est happiness in life-for I stimulate
~
f
t
~
~

this burst of
the
an expression of the innate talents voice of ~
~
~
-
~
~
grows sud-
of a better self.
It matters not denly deep and serious, y,ex-~n-
whether the Person be a laborer, a tagonism helps to fulfill the plan of
housewife, a politicion, a professional
creation. One of the objects of erea-
or business man or woman,-each
is tion is production. The antagonistic,
happy in proportion to the innate the law of opposites is used for crea-
perfections he or she is expressing.
tive purposes.
~h~ feminine and
"The feminist movement is an ef- masculine, the negative and positive
fort toward expression, where before
opposing elements; their union
there has been suppression. Woman produces a new
wants to be happy along with the
reality of man has two as-
rest of the world.
"When modern man recognizes
pe~ts. One aspect attaches him to
thls world, its thoughts and affairs.
~
d
,
"
~
~
~
~
~
~
~
,

a!:;pcS:'
ZI;'~; The other aspect directs his attention
found for both. Sex-Antagonism will to the ideals of a spiritual existence.
then stimulate the better talents of
$
~
~
e
~
~
~
~
~
each into activity.
harmony and co-operation
of the two opposing elements in man,
can only be found through mutual
the material and the spiritual, results
in self- in an individuality that is eternal.
expression promotes understanding, We Say such a man has character' In
and prevents the sacrifices of one in- the same way, the illumination radi-
dividuality
for another.
Modern ating from an incandescent bulb has
maintains her individuality,
resulted from the union of the nega-
understands and is
understood
tive and positive poles of electricty.
than were her ancestors.
Just so the two opposite poles that
ancient man, who was represent the human race, when prop-
of all he surveyed, and his slave
erly united, will produce an illumined
no constructive conflict
understanding that will become uni-
isted.
It takes two opposing ele-
merits to cause a conflict. ~h~ man
A silence of thought ensues. . . . .
was sufficiently aggressive to find a
The message
of
Sex-Antagonism
means of expressing his talents; but awakens me to s new realization of
undeveloped
completely sub-
!ife.
I see all the conflicting forces
merged her individuality to man.
in the world-negative and positive,
~~~k of respect for
was the male and female, constructive and de-
effect on man.
structive, material and spiritual con-
' ' ~ ~ t
a tide of sex-antagonism is
stantly contributing their individual
risinmg! ~
~
t
~
~
t

talents are develop- energy toward the equalization, the
ing ! Co-operation hetween the sexes realization Of fuller and more Per-
is in sight. The modern woman has
fect life.
arrived.
She expresses her senti-
A vision appears before my eyes.
ments in the Delineator : "The mod- I see a mysterious valley hidden in the
ern woman wants a common share darkness of ignorance and misconcep-
in all her husband's interests, in his tion. From its tangled depths there
failures as well as his successes, his
rises at dawn of day a beautiful
love as well as his money. The mod-
white bird. Its two well developed

ESPERANTO AND BAH&i TFACHINGS
wings glisten in the sunlight, and
in the school of earth expcriencc.
move
with
equal
strength
and
Now that its two wings are equally
rhythm.
The bird carries in its strong, the equality of men and
mouth a gem of great price-the gem
women is realized, and the bird of
of knowledge.
I hear a voice say,
humanity, with a free spiritual con-
"It is the bird of humanity which has
sciousness, can soar from summit to
been educated, trained and developed
summit of progress."
ESPERANTO AND THE BAHA'f TEACHINGS
T
HE need of an international lan-
guage has long been felt among
the forward-looking mcn and women
of all lands. Both ideal and utilitarian
considerations urgently demand the
establishment of such a language at
the earliest possible moment.
The
practical handicaps in connection
with all international intercourse and
especially in all international con-
gresses and similar gatherings, aris-
inlg from lack of a common tongue,
are becoming more manifest each
year. The growth of the international
spirit makes more glaring the lack
of an efficient vehicle through which
it may function.
It is obvious that national lan-
guages, no matter how widespread,
will not serve the turn. The objec-
tion to them lies deeper than their
complex structure, their abundant ir-
regularities, their numerous idioms.
Each of them embodies centuries of
the separate history and experience
of a race, with the past and present
phases of racial psychology that have
developed.
Into each natural lan-
guage the spirit of a people has been
wrought. Its wonderful power of ex-
pressing the thoughts, sentiment and
ideals that particularly distinguish
its own group, is precisely the impas-
sible barrier against its adequacy to
meet the needs of other groups. A
national bias is so deeply lodged in it
as to be irremovable by any simplifi-
cation or other scheme of adaptation.
Hence it can never be made neutral,
in such a way that all people shall
feel equally at home in it. Moreover,
the adoption of such a language, in-
stead of allaying the causes of mis-
understanding and ill will, would in
some measure intensify them, since
it would arouse the strongest jealous-
ies and suspicions on the part of the
greater nations whose tongues had
been passed over for the favored one.
The international use, then, of any
national language must in the nature
of the case be a very limited one. It
cannot be assumed that even the fore-
most men of all nations are skilled
linguists, even when they are placed
in a position where ability to compre-
hend one another perfectly would be
of the utmost importance to them-
selves and to the world. No man can
tell how serious has been the conse-
quence of the lack of a common lan-
guage in a single case.
When the
foremost
representatives
of
the
United States, Great Britain, France,
Italy and Japan met at Versailles, to
develop principles by which the peace
of the world should be established
and the course of all future history
determined, it was found that there
was not one language which all of
them could understand; and the pre-
cision of tlie ideas expressed and dis-
cussed suffered accordingly with ser-
ious effects from which it is probable

BAHP~
YEAR BOOK
that thc world is today suffering and
must suffer for a long time to come.
It is obvious that no international
language can take the place of a
natural language for the special pur-
poses of everyday use within a na-
tional group. The respective affec-
tions, with accompanying obligations,
belonging to family, neighborhood,
town or city, state and nation, repre-
senting an ever-widening circle of in-
terests and duties, are all to be cor-
related, and in no sense conflict with
one another. In the same way, none
of these, in a properly ordered world,
can ever conflict with the still wider
circle of love and duty toward man-
kind as a whole. The natural lan-
guages have grown in accordance
with fixed principles planted in the
human mind and disposition, and ex-
actly fit the local and national needs
of complete expression. Each one of
them, even the least widely used,
ought to be perpetuated, and its his-
tory and literature preserved as a
permanent
part of
the cultural
treasure of the human race.
The
adoption of an international language
will not have the slightest tendency
to weaken or destroy any one of
them.
Its function will be to pro-
mote effective intercommunication
among men and women of different
lands. To do so, it must ignore the
separate characteristics of particular
races, and possess simply the uni-
versal human qualities, which will be
recognized by all as held in common
by them and their fellows of every
land.
For several hundred years, there
have been some in every generation
who have not been blind to the need
of such a medium.
First to voice
this need in clear accents was the
great Bohemian pioneer of sound
educational principles, known and
honored by the whole world under
the name of Comenius. Attempts to
put the conception into practice, how-
ever, were long unsuccessful. Some-
thing like 150 abortive experiments
preceded the invention of Esperanto,
only one of which, Volapuk, seemed
for a short time, in spite of its glar-
ing faults, destined to find acceptance
on account of the increasing realiza-
tion of the crying need. The main
trouble with all these undertakings
was apparently their concentration
upon utilitarian aims, and their in-
difference to the larger ideals of the
unity of mankind. Hence the best of
them inevitably turned out to be me-
chanical and lifeless. There was no
spiritual instinct in the minds of their
creators ; and no soul could appear in
the languages themselves.
In the mean time, in the middle of
the ninteenth century, the divine mes-
sage of BahB'u'llah suddenly brought
a sublime radlance to dispel the
clouds of ignorance and prejudice by
which the minds of men had been
darkened.
The bigoted mullzis of
Persia were aghast at the audacity
of one who spoke with the conscious-
ness of divinely bestowed authority,
and who dared to substitute for their
partial vision of theological doctrine
the "strange innovation" (actually
referred to by one of them in some
such term) of the Brotherhood of
Man. A new age was opened; and
the influence of the God-sent mes-
senger permeated receptive souls
everywhere, even among those who
lived and died without hearing the
name of the divine teacher. Among
the clear instructions of BahB'u'llBh,
put forth with the same urgency as
any other of his teachings, was that
of the selection or creation of an in-
ternational language for the promo-
tion of unity among mankind. This
was no thought of a mere utilitarian
project, but a direct command for the
services of God by the creation of an
instrument for bringing the thoughts
of his children into closer harmony.
Over and over again in the sacred

ESPERnNTO AND B A H ~ ' ~
TEACHINGS
Tablets, this is insisted on as a duty,
"so that the whole world," as de-
clared in the Tablet of IshrBqLt, "may
thereby be considered as one native
land and one part."
The ultimate choice of such a uni-
versally accepted international lan-
guage, which is to be taught "to the
children in the schools of the world,"
must be made by agreement among
the nations of the world, either
through their present rulers, or if
they fail to do so, by the House of
Justice, when, in the divine provid-
ence, the duties of universal adminis-
tration shall be placed upon its
shoulders.
In the mean time, how-
ever, there is an obvious step to be
taken, if in any way possible, in the
creation and voluntary use by all who
recognize the principle of one inter-
national language, to be thoroughly
tested in every way; that when the
time comes for final official choice
and universal instruction in the
chqsen tongue, those who are to
decide shall have abundant experi-
ence to guide them, whether they are
to ratify the language already in wide
use, to accept it with modifications or
to decide upon a different one.
In the creation of Esperanto, this
condition has been fully met.
Dr.
Zamenhof, its author, grew up from
boyhood with an inborn love of man-
kind and longing to bring about a rec-
onciliation among its conflicting ele-
ments. His lifework was inspired,
not like the efforts of his unsuccess-
ful predecessors, by a mere desire to
facilitate commercial, scientific or
diplomatic activities, or to promote
the comfort and pleasure of trav-
elers, desirable and valuable as these
and other uses of an international
languasge certainly are, but primarily
to destroy the causes of misunder-
standing and hate among his fellow-
men by furnishing them with a means
of coming to a better understanding.
The light that reached him. and found
him ready to follow its guidance, was,
though he knew it not with his intel-
lectual realization, the divine radi-
ance. As a result, his work remains,
bringing forth constant fruits for
good. It would take many pages to
enter into detail regarding Esperanto
and its accomplishments. Suffice it
to say here that its followers are
found in every land, and constitute a
cross-section of every branch of hu-
man society.
It is being used for
myriads of purposes by an ever-in-
creasing number of adherents.
It
breathes in itself a spirit of inter-
national fellowship; and the feeling
of comradeship among Esperantists
everywhere is almost incredible in
its intensity.
That the mission of Esperanto is
in harmony with the divine teach-
ings, is manifest by a multitude of
proofs. Chief of all is the repeated
expression by 'Abdu'l-BahL of his ap-
proval of the Esperanto cause and his
earnest wish that all followers of the
BahB'i truth shall adhere to it. In
his message to Esperantists in 1912,
he wrote: "All through America I
have encouraged the BahL'is to study
Esperanto; and to the extent of my
ability I will strive in its spread and
promotion." Again, in 1913, He said
in Paris: "Now, praise be to God
that Dr. Zamenhof has invented the
Esperanto language. It has all the
potential qualities of becoming the
international means of communica-
tion. All of us must be grateful and
thankful to him for this noble effort;
for in this way hz has served his fel-
lowmen well. He has invented a lan-
guage which will bestow the greatest
benefits on all people. With untiring
effort and self-sacrifice on the part of
its devotees it will become universal.
Therefore every one of us must study
this language, and spread it as far as
possible, so that day by day it may
receive a wider recognition, be ac-
cepted by all nations and govern-

UNITY IN RELIGION
ments of the world, and become a part
of the curriculum in all the public
schools. I hope that the language of
all the future international confer-
ences and congresses will become Es-
peranto, so that all people may ac-
quire only two languages-one their
own tongue and the other the inter-
national auxiliary language.
Then
perfect union will be established he-
tween all the people of the world."
The foregoing are not isolated ex-
pressions by the great Teacher, but
are typical of repeated utterances,
which indicate how deeply his heart
was concerned on the subject. In a
Tablet addressed to the writer of
these lines in 1920, it is written : "As
to thy attendance at the Esperanto
Conference. . . . it is very advisable.
Thou shouldst show utmost efficiency
thereat, in order to spread the divine
teachings, one of which is the one-
ness of language."
Incumbent as it is on all intelligent
well-wishers of their kind to lend
their aid to the furtherance of this
vital factor in promoting conscious-
ness of unity among the peoples,
there is a special burden laid among
the followers of the Bahl'i Teach-
ings, for whom the repeatedly ex-
pressed wish of 'Abdu'l-BahL should
mark the path of a duty not to be
shirked under any conceivable pre-
text. He, no one of whose words was
ever lightly or indiflerenlly uttered,
declares: '%very one of u s  must
study this language, and spread it as
far as possible."
The blessing for
faithfulness rests not in mere a o
quiscence, but in strict and active
obedience.
The Esperantists, who
are toiling night and day in a cause
thus carrying into action the pre-
cepts of Bahl'u'lllh, and in which
'Abdu'l-BahB has specifically com-
manded the professed followers of
the Revelation of this age to parti-
cipate, are looking intently at the
actions of those who name themselves
Baha'is, and are wondering why so
few among them have responded to
this injunction of the Master.
Universal obedience to this di-
vinely given command will mean the
installation of a deeper spiritual con-
sciousness into the Esperanto move-
ment, and the intensive spread, by
this great vehicle, of the divine Teach-
ings throughout the most progressive
groups of lovers of their kind in every
land on earth. It will also hasten
the speedy execution of this one of
the original principles enunciated at
the very beginning of the great Reve-
lation; and when the world has once
adopted and put into action a single
one of the precepts of the Manifesta-
tion 01 the age, the way for accept-
ance of the companion truths will
have been made far more easy.
SOME TENDENCIES TOWARD UNITY IN RELIGION
I
T must be obvious to even the most
casual observer that the old de-
nominational lines separating the
sects are fast lasing all intellectual
meaning. It is no longer possible to
differentiate Baptists,
Methodists,
Congregationalists, Presbyterians, as
it was at the close of the nineteenth
century. Many an orthodox clergy-
man today entertains religious be-
liefs that make such eminent Uni-
tarians as Channing and Martineau
appear exceedingly conservative. Dr.
Harry Emersor, Fosdick delights to
speak of himself as "a Nondescript."
Dr. Joseph Fort Newton has been a
Congregationalist preacher at the
City Temple in London, a Universal-

'EAR BOOK
ist ministcr in New York. and now he
is an Episcopalian clergyman at
Overbrook, Pa., yet the successive
transitions have been made with no
friction whatsoever, so easy has the
passage been made from one Chris-
tian communion to another.
During the last decade it has hap-
pened again and again that when two
churches had forgotten why they
ever separated, and neither of them
was able to pay a minister a living
wage, they bethought themselves
"how good and pleasant a thing it is
for brethren to dwell together in
unity,"-and promptly a merger en-
sued. Thus one of the immediate and
spontaneous results of economic con-
ditions and of the breakdown of sec-
tarian boundary-lines is the revival
of a demand for union, for the con-
solidation of religious forces anal-
ogous to that which has already been
consummated in the industrial world.
The most recent of these mergers
is that known as The United Church
of Canada. After twenty years of
agitation and negotiation we find that
the Presbyterians, the Methodists and
the Congregationalists have agreed to
ignore their differences and their sec-
tional separations for ever. This is
what happened: First, the govern-
ing assemblies of these three sec-
tarian groups endorsed the merger.
Next, the individual churches voted
for it by large majorities, the Cana-
dian parliament then sanctioned it,
and the Canadian courts legalized it.
As a result the Presbyterian, Metho-
dist and Congregational churches as
such have disappeared, and in their
place stands The United Church of
Canada, with an inclusive member-
ship of two and a half million, repre-
senting thirty per cent of the total
population of the Dominion.
The nearest approach to such a
merger within the limits of the
United States, but signalizing no less
the tendency to unity, is what is
known as The Federal Cuuncil of
Churches of Christ in America. This
was organized in 1908, and bands to-
gether twenty-eight Protestant de-
nominations.
From the latest offi-
cial document of this Federal Council
we learn that during sixteen years of
service it has conclusively proved
that "the ideal of religious unity in
service is practical."
The Federal Council, through the
Commission on Social Service "car-
ries on a steady program of helping
local churches to work out any pro-
posal for building a better commun-
ity life." Inter-racial conferences,
"bringing together leaders of the
white and negra people in a program
of co-operative effort, have already
been held in many of the leading
cities."
The campaign "to create
public opinion for the entrance of the
United States into the permanent
Court of International Justice has
been pursued with such vigor that it
is generally agreed that the churches
are the greatest single factor in
bringing this about."
The Federal Council has estab-
lished a Department of Research and
Education, "in order to secure and
publish the necessary data from
which a correct moral judgment on
contemporary issues can be formed."
Universalist leaders are just now
making fresh attempts at uniting
their denomination with the Unitar-
ian, proposing a new basis upon
which a consolidation may be suc-
cessfully consumated.
Our Episco-
palian brethren have been actively
engaged for the past fifteen years in
laying the foundations for a world-
wide fellowship of all "who accept
the Lord Jesus Christ as God and
Savior." At the General Convention
in 1910, it was unanimously voted to
invite all churches which accept this
doctrine to attend a "World Confer-
ence on Faith and Order," to the end
that it might culminate in a fellow-
ship "absolutely unprecedented in
Christian history."
The plan was

UNITY IN RELIGION
financially supported by a gift of one
hundred thousand dollars by the late
J. Pierpont Morgan. The plan was
officially endorsed by sixty distinct
commissions
representing
all the
leading, branches of the Christian
church throughout the world. In the
official statement published by the
original commission we read :
"A disunited Christendom cannot
effectually achieve the work of the
Christian Church. So long as we are
disunited controversy and rivalry will
continue, and these things cannot but
make charity more difficult and bit-
terness more prevalent. Every effort
to secure Christian unity will prove
disruptive and futile if vital convic-
tions are compromised or Christian
consciences stultified ; rather must
the aim be the frank recognition of
the things in which Christians differ
as well as those in which they agree.
The fact is that Christians are not
agreed as to what is essential in
Christianity, and the sense of stew-
ardship of the essential truth is not
peculiar to any single Christian com-
munion, but is felt in each of the sun-
dered parts of Christendom. There-
fore we need to confer together, in a
spirit of loving candor to discern
what is true and vital in the position
of each communion in the hope of at-
taining to a common mind, in which
everything that is precious shall be
treasured, and be given its just and
proportionate value."
Surely such a project, narrowly
restricted in scope as it is, yet ani-
mated by a most noble spirit is cer-
tain to produce permanent, beneficial
results. Whatever the ultimate out-
come of the "world conference'' may
be (the date set for it is 1927) it is
certain to result in an increase of
mutual charity, mutual understand-
ing, mutual tolerance and teachable-
ness. It will mark another milestone
on the road to that ideal religious
fellowship which is the much de-
sired goal ere a divine civilization
can be established.
For assuredly
it is not enough that we be brothers
and sisters in Christ, we must be
brothers and sisters in Humanity,
with all the rest of mankind, that is
what an ideal fellowship stands for
and nothing less can ever fully
satisfy. At Benares in India plans
have been consummated for the erec-
tion of a "Hall of all Religions" at
which the study of comparative reli-
gion is to be pursued under the
broadest and most catholic auspices
ever known. Lectures are to be de-
livered on the great religions by au-
thorities drawn from all the historic
faiths; a library is to be constructed
and stocked with the best literature
in all tongues on comparative reli-
gion ; a dormitory is to be erected for
the benefit of the resident student-
body.
An appropriation of about
$5,000,000 has been set aside for the
fulfilment of the plan as agreed upon
by a board of trustees including rep-
resentatives of all of the seven ex-
tant great religions. Thus in India
and other parts of the world there
will be demonstrations of an organic
fellowship of faiths-as there has al-
ready been in Persia-that ideal re-
ligious unity of Eahh'u'llhh-and the
goal of all BahL'i religious endeavor.

BAHA'~ YEAR BOOK
SCIENCE AND RELIGION
Note: The follaving passages have been taken f r m  Chapter XII of "Bahai'u'El6h and
the New Era."
OMPLETE harmony with science
c. .
.
1s evident in the BahB'i teachings
regarding the way in which we must
seek the truth. Man must cut him-
self free from all prejudice so that he
may seek after truth unhindered.
'Abdu'l-BahB says: "In order to
find truth we must give up our preju-
dices, our own small trivial notions;
an open receptive mind is essential.
If our chalice is full of self, there is
no room in it for the water of life.
The fact that we imagine ourselves
to be right and everybody else wrong
is the greatest of all obstacles in the
path towards unity, and unity is es-
sential if we would reach Truth, for
Truth is one. . .
"No one truth can contradict
another truth. Light is good in what-
soever lamp it is burning! A rose
is beautiful in whatsoever garden it
may bloom!
A star has the same
radiance if it shines from the East
or from the West! Be free from
prejudice; so will you love the Sun of
Truth from whatever point in the
horizon it may arise. You will real-
ize that if the Divine Light of Truth
shone in Jesus Christ, it also shone
in Moses and Buddha. This is what
is meant by the search after truth.
"It also means that we must be
willing to clear away all that we have
previously learned, all that would
clog our steps on the way to Truth;
we must not shrink if necessary,
from beginning our education all over
again. We must not allow our love
for any one religion or any one per-
sonality so to blind our eyes that we
become fettered by superstition.
When we are freed from all these
bonds, seeking with liberated minds,
then we shall be able to arrive at our
goal.'
The Baha'i teaching is at one with
science and philosophy in declaring
the essential nature of God to be en-
tirely beyond human comprehension.
As emphatically as Huxley and
Spencer teach that the nature of the
Great First Cause is unknowable,
does BahB'u'llBh teach that "God com-
prehends all; he cannot be compre-
hended." To knowledge of the Di-
vine essence "the way is barred and
the road is impassable," for how can
the finite comprehend the Infinite;
how can a drop contain the ocean or
a mote dancing in the sunbeam em-
brace the universe? Yet the whole
universe is eloquent of God. In each
drop of water are hidden oceans of
meaning, and in each mote is con-
cealed a whole universe of signifi-
cances, reaching far beyond the ken
of the most learned scientist. The
chemist and physicist pursuing their
researches into the nature of matter,
have passed from masses to mole-
cules, from molecules to atoms, from
atoms to electrons and ether, but at
every step the difficulties of the re-
search increase till the most profound
intellect can pelletrate no further,
and can but bow in silent awe before
the unknown Infinite which remains
ever shrouded in inscrutable mys-
tery.
If the flower in the crannied wall,
if even a single atom of matter, pre-
sents mysteries which the most pro-
found intellect cannot solve, how is it
possible for man to comprehend the
universe? How dare he pretend to
define or describe the Infinite cause
of all things? All theological specula-

SCIENCE AND
tions about the nature of God's es-
sence are thus swept aside as foolish
and futile.
But if the essence is unknowable,
the manifestations of its bounty are
everywhere apparent.
If the first
cause cannot be conceived, its effects
appeal to our every faculty.
Just
as knowledge of a painter's pictures
gives to the connoisseur a true knowl-
edge of the artist, so knowledge of the
universe in any of its aspects-knowl-
edge of nature or of human nature,
of things visible or of things in-
visible--is knowledge of God's handi-
work, and gives to the seeker for Di-
vine Truth a real knowledge of His
Glory.
All things manifest the bounty of
God with greater or less clearness,
as all material objects exposed to the
sun reflect its light in greater or less
degree. A heap of soot reflects a
little, a stone reflects more, a piece of
chalk more still, but in none of these
reflections can we trace the form and
color of the glorious orb. A perfect
mirror, however, reflects the sun's
very form and color, so that looking
into the mirror is like looking at the
sun itself, so it is with the way in
which things speak to us of God. The
stone can tell us something of the Di-
vine attributes, the flower can tell us
more, the animal with its marvellous
senses, instincts and power of move-
ment, more still.
In the lowest of
our fellowmen we can trace wonder-
ful faculties which tell of a wonder-
ful Creator. In the poet, the saint,
the genius, we find a higher revela-
tion still, but the great prophets and
founders of religions are the perfect
mirrors by which the love and wis-
dom of God are reflected to the rest
of mankind.
Other men's mirrors
are dulled by the stains and the dust
of selfishness and prejudice, but these
are pure and without blemish-
wholly devoted to the Will of God.
Thus they become the great educators
of mankind. . . .
Bahi'u'llih teaches that the uni-
verse is without beginning in time.
It is a perpetual emanation from the
Great First Cause. The Creator al-
ways had His creation and always
will have. Worlds and systems may
come and go, but the universe re-
mains. All things that undergo com-
position, in time undergo decomposi-
tion, but the component elements re-
main. The creation of a world, a
daisy or a human body is not "mak-
ing something out of nothing," it is
rather a bringing together of ele-
ments which before were scattered,
a making visible of something which
before was hidden. . . .
Bah&'u'llLh
also confirms the biolo-
gist who finds for the body of man a
history reaching back in the develop-
ment of the species through millions
of years. Starting from a very sim-
plc, apparently insignificant form, the
human body is pictured as developing
stage by stage, in the course of untold
generations, becoming more and more
complex, and better and better or-
ganized until the man of the present
day is reached. Each individual hu-
man body develops through such a
series of stages, from a tiny round
speck of jelly-like matter to the fully
developed man. If this is true of the
individual, as nobody denies, why
should we consider it derogatory to
human dignity to admit a similar de-
velopment for the species? This is a
very different thing from claiming
that man is descended from a
monkey. The human embryo may at
one time resemble a fish with gill-
slits and a tail, but it is not a fish. It
is a human embryo. . . .
'Abdu'l-Bahi says: "It is clear that
this terrestrial globe in its present
form did not come into existence all
at once, but gradually passed through
different phases until it became

BAR BOOK
adorned with its present perfection.
. . . Man in the beginning of his
existence and in the womb of the
earth, like the embryo in the womb
of the mother, gradually grew and
developed, and passed from one form
to another, until he appeared with
this beauty and perfection, this force
and this power. It is certain that in
the beginning he had not this loveli-
ness and grace and elegance, and that
he only by degrees attained this
shape, this form, this beauty and this
grace. . . . Man's existence on this
earth from the beginning until it
reaches this stage, form and condi-
tion, necessarily lasts a long time. . .
but from the beginning of man's ex-
istence he is a distinct species. . . .
Admitting that the traces of organs
which have disappeared actually
exist (in the human body), this is
not a proof of the impermanence and
the non-originality of the species. At
the most it proves that the form and
fashion and the organs of man have
progressed.
Man was always a dis-
tinct species, a man, not an animal."
The BahB'i teachings with regard
to body and soul, and the life after
death, are quite in harmony with the
results of psychical research. They
teach, as we have seen, that death is
but a new birth-the escape from the
prison of the body into a larger life,
and that progress in the after-life is
limitless. . . .
All the signs of the times indicate
that we are at the dawn of a new era
in the history of mankind. Hitherto
the young eagle of humanity has
clung to the old eyrie in the solid
rock of selfishness and materialism.
Its attempts to use its wings have
been timid and tentative. It has had
restless longings for something still
unattained.
More and more it has
been chafing in the confinement of the
old dogmas and orthodoxies.
But
now the era of confinement is at an
end, and it can launch on the wings
of faith and reason into the higher
realms of spiritual love and truth.
It will no longer be earth-bound as
it was before its wings had grown,
but will soar at will to the regions of
wide outlook and glorious freedom.
One thing is necessary, however, if
its flight is to be sure and steady. Its
wings must not only be strong, but
they must act in perfect harmony
and co-ordination. As 'Abdu'l-BahB
says: "It cannot fly with one wing
alone. If it tries to fly with the wing
of religion alone it will land in the
slough of superstition, and if it tries
to fly with the wing of science alone
it will end in the dreary bog of ma-
terialism."
Perfect harmony between science
and religion is the sine qua non of
the higher life for humanity. When
that is achieved, and every child is
trained not only in the study of the
sciences and arts, but equally in love
to all mankind and in radiant ac-
quiescence to the Will of God as re-
vealed in the progress of evolution
and the teachings of the prophets,
+hen and not until then, shall the
Kingdom of God come and His Will
bs done on earth as it is in Heaven;
then and not until then shall the Most
Great Peace shed its blessings on the
world.

UNIVERSAL EDUCATION
UNIVERSAL EDUCATEON
QUOTATIONS FROM THE Ba~h'i TEACHINGS
K
NOWLEDGE is like unto wings
for the being (of man) and is
like a ladder for ascending. To ac-
quire kntrwled$e is incumbent upon
all, but of those sciences which may
profit the people of the earth, and not
such sciences as begin in mere words
and end in mere words. The pos-
sessors of sciences and arts have a
great right among the people of the
world. Indeed, the real treasury of
man is hi,s knowledge. Knowledge is
the means of honor, prosperity, joy,
gladness, happiness and exultation.
He who educates his son, or any
other children, it is as though he
hath educated one of My children.
(Tablets of BahA'u'llah.)
NO INDIVIDUAL should be de-
nied or deprived of intellectual train-
ing although each should receive ac-
cording to capacity.
None must be
left in the grades of ignorance, for
ignorance is a defect in the human
world. All mankind must be given
a knowledge of science and philos-
ophy; that is, as much as may be
deemed necessary. All cannot be sci-
entists and philosophers but each
should be educated according to his
needs and deserts.
The education of woman is more
necessary and important than that
of man, for woman is the trainer of
the child from its infancy. If she
be defective and imperfect herself
the child will necessarily be deficient ;
therefore imperfection of woman im-
plies a condition of imperfection in
all mankind, for it is the mother who
rears,
nurtures and guides the
growth of the child. This is not the
function of the father. If the edu-
cator be incompetent the educated
will be correspondingly lacking. This
is e v i d e n t and incontrovertible.
Could the student be brilliant and ac-
complished if the teacher is illiterate
and ignorant? The mothers are the
first educators of mankind; if they
be imperfect, alas for the condition
and future of the race. . . . There-
fore, they (the mothers) must be
capably trained in order to educate
both sons and daughters. There are
many provisions in the Words of Ba-
hi'u'llih in regard to this. . . When
all mankind shall receive the same op-
portunity of education and the equal-
ity of men and women be realized,
the foundations of war will be ut-
terly destroyed.
('Abdu'l-BahA in
"Promulgation of Universal Peace.")
EDUCATION holds a n  important
place in the new order of things.
The education of each child is com-
pulsory.
If there is not money
enough in the family to educate bot'n
the girl and the boy the money must
be dedicated to the girl's education,
for she is the potential mother.
If
there are no parents the community
must educate the child. In addition
to this widespread education each
child must be taught a profession,
art, or trade, so that every member
of the community will be enabled to
earn his own livelihood. Work done
in the spirit of service is the highest
form of worship.
('Abdu'l-Baht4 in
"Divine Philosophy.")
ALL THE CHILDREN must be
educated so that there will not re-
main one single individual without
an education.
In cases of inability
on the part of the parents through
sickness, death, etc., the state must
educate the child.
In addition to
this widespread education, each child

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
must be taught a profession or trade
so that each individual member of
the body politic will be enabled to
earn his own living and at the same
time serve the community. . . From
this universal system of education
misunderstandings will be expelled
from amongst the children of men.
('Abdu'l-BahA,
in "BahB'i
Scrip-
tures," v. 574.
BAHA'UJLLdH has
announced
that inasmuch as tgnorance and lack
of education are barriers of separa-
tion among mankind, all must re-
ceive t r a i n i n g and instruction.
Through this provision the lack of
mutual understanding will be reme-
died and the unity of mankind fur-
thered and advanced. Universal edu-
cation is a universal law. It is there-
fore incumbent upon every father to
teach and instruct his children ac-
cording to his possibilities. If he is
unable to educate them, the body-
politic, the representative of the peo-
ple must provide the means for their
education.
('Abdu'l-BahP, in "Pro-
mulgation of Universal Peace," p.
294.)
THE NECESSITY OF education
for all mankind is evident. Children
especially must be trained and taught
. . . . Through the broadening spirit
of education, illiteracy will disappear
and misunderstandings due to ignor-
ance will pass away. . . . He (Ba-
hh'u'llih) has proclaimed the prin-
ciple that all mankind shall be edu-
cated and that no illiteracy be allowed
to remain. This practical remedy for
the need of the world cannot be found
in the text of any other sacred books.
('Abdu'l-Baha in "Promulgation of
Universal Peace.")
THE PROPHETS OF GOD are
the first Educators.
They bestow
universal education upon man and
cause him to rise from the lowest
levels of savagery to the highest pin-
nacles of spiritual development. The
philosoplqers, too, are educators along
lines of intellectual training.
At
most they have only been able to edu-
cate themseves and a limited number
about them, to improve their own
morals and, so to speak, civilize
themselves; but they have been in-
capable of universal education. They
have failed to cause an advancement
for any lgiven nation from savagery
to civilization.
It is evident that although educa-
tion improves the morals of mankind,
confers the advantages of civiliza-
tion and elevates man from lowest
degrees to the station of sublimity,
there is nevertheless a difference in
the intrinsic or natal capacity of in-
dividuals. Ten children of the same
age, with equal station of birth,
taught in the same school, partaking
of the same food, in all respects sub-
ject to the same environment, their
interests equal and in common, will
evidence separate and distinct de-
grees of capability and advancement ;
some exceedingly intelligent and pro-
gressive, some of mediocre ability,
others limited and incapable.
One
may become a learned professor
while another under the same course
of education proves dull and stupid.
From all standpoints the opportuni-
ties have been equal but the results
and outcomes vary from the highest
to lowest degree of advancement. It
is evident therefore that mankind
differs in natal capacity and intrinsic
intellectual endowment.
Neverthe-
less although capacities are not the
same, every member of the human
race is capable of education. . . . .
the holy Manifestations of God, the
Divine Prophets are the first teachers
of the human race. They are uni-
versal Educators and the fundamen-
tal principles they have laid down
are the causes and factors of the ad-
vancement of nations.
('Abdu'l-Ba-
ha in "Promulgation of Universal
Peace.")

RACIAL AMITY
RACIAL AMITY
BY LOUIS
G. GREGORY
Report of an A&ress given at the Wrst Convention for Amity between the white and
colored races, held at Washington, D. C.
"All races, tribes, sects and classes share equally in the bounty of their Heavenly
Father. The only real difference lien in the degree o f  faithfulness, of obed:kma t o  the
laws of Gold. There are some who are as lighted torches; there are others who shine as
stars in the sky of humanity.
"The lovers of wmnlcind, these are the superior men, of whatever nation, creed or color
they may be."-'ABDU'L-BAHA.
T
HE new springtime is the spir-
itual springtime, with the flow
of the light and the love of God, the
Divine Unity, into the hearts of man-
kind. When the springtime comes,
the winter, with its decay, degrada-
tion, and death, has passed away,
and we find the sun shines with bril-
liancy and splendor, and that clouds
of mercy shower their drops upon
humankind.
We feel these zephyrs
of divinc providenec waft upon all.
!Phe light of reality gleams. The hu-
man heart becomes more tender and
sympathetic to the needs of its fel-
low beings, and all these vibrations
of love that are transmitted from
the Kingdom of God have their play
in the hearts of men and make more
certain and real this thought of
brotherhood. We have our problems
to solve in this country, but let us
not become despondent over them,
realizing that today the whole world
is having its problems and difficulties.
There is no country in the world to-
day that has not difficulties equaling,
if not surpassing, our own. I do not
say this with the suggestion that
misery loves company, but in order
that we may not be despondent and
think that these difficulties are hin-
drances. The divine springtime has
appeared and the great enlightened
principles, which are the light and
progress of the whole world of hu-
manity, are set in motion. These re-
late to the great peace, the universal-
ity of truth, to the great law that hu-
manity is one, even as God is one, to
the elevation of
the station of
woman, who must no longer be con-
fined to a limited life but be every-
where recognized as the equal and
helpmeet of man. These pertain to
the universality of education, to the
oneness of language, to the solution
of this economic problem which has
vexed the greatest minds of the
world and its noblest hearts, and to
that supreme dynamic power, the
Holy Spirit of God, whose outpouring
upon the whole world of flesh will
make this a world of light, of joy,
and of triumph. "In His Name," as
the Herald proclaimed, "In the name
of God, the victor of the most victor-
ious, proclaim!
God will assist all
those who arise to serve Him. No
one is able to deprive Him of His
majesty, His dominion, His sover-
eignty; for in the Heavens and the
earth, and in all the realms of God,
He is the victorious and the con-
queror!" If we follow the Creator
in all His marvelous work, we shall
find that it is characterized by infinite
diversity and variety. Wherever the
human eye moves in creation we see
variegated forms.
In the mineral
kingdom if you should bring together
a number of jewels, the diamond, the
emerald, the ruby, the sapphire, the
pearl, you will find that their com-
bined beauty is greater than any
single element. They enhance each

YEAR BOOK
other's valuc. Traveling through the
far western country one may see
thousands of sheep gathered together
in a peaceful fold, one shepherd and
one fold. The fact that some of these
sheep are black and others are white
does not make the slightest differ-
ence in that community of interest,
for they know each other not by their
color (but by their kind, and they love
each other in response to that spirit
of God which vibrates in all c
r
eation.
One star differs from another in mag-
nitude, but each and all of these
stars contribute to the brilliancy of
the heavens.
We have heard, the
wonderful harmony of an orchestra.
We have heard those rich strains.
Have you ever stopped to consider
that in an orchestra the words, the
music, the voices, the instruments
may be different; and yet exquisite
harmony, under the guidance of a
great master, may come from that
orchestra? The world has had a note
of discord for many thousand years,
and it must impress itself upon every
reasonable man that war, force, and
violence, are the greatest calamities
that alflict the ~vorld of mankind.
But now we are striviulg for the note
of harmony.
The thought of har-
mony, itself, is a happy thought,
something that makes the hearts of
men joyful, something that makes
their minds flash with the gems of
reality. For our own peace, safety,
and salvation, we should make every
effort to bring harmony out of these
discordant notes that h a v e b e e n
struck for time and ages throughout
the world.
The races living side by side need
each other. If even two communi-
ties which are near each other co-
operate, it works to the commercial
development and the happiness of
both. We know the advantage and
benefit which comes through co-
operation when it affects two great
nations, even though their ideals and
principles and self-interest differ in
every stage of their growth; but, to-
day we need a harmony which is so
universal that it will bind together
the hearts of all these struggling ele-
ments which make up creation. Let
us follow the guidance and the wis-
dom of God! Have you stopped to
observe that the clouds of His mercy
shower upon all the world of human-
ity; that the air we breathe is not
confined to one church, or one syn-
agogue, or one mosque, but the uni-
versal bounty of God supports all
life and creation?
The sunshine,
with its great splendor, is not limited
to this class or that class, or this
race or that race, or one nation or
another, but it beautifies and glori-
fies the whole realm of existence.
God's is the universal bounty and He
loves all of His children.
He has
provided for them out of that great
love. Shall men, therefore, reverse
the purposes of God? Shall we re-
ject the divine wisdom and initiate
a different plan? If the divine plan
is one of light, shall we make ours
one of darkness? If the divine plan
is one of providence, shall we devise
a plan of greed? If the divine plan is
one of altruism, shall we make ours
the plan of selfishness? If the di-
vine plan is universal tolerance, shall
we inaugurate a plan of prejudice
and pride?
How can man escape
disaster and humiliation if he is so
self-centered and so self-satisfied that
he attempts to reverse the principles
of God?
The races living side by side have
a common origin and a common des-
tiny. From God we came and to Him
we return, and we have many things
in common.
We live in the same
favored land; we are warmed by the
same sunshine; we strive for those
same virtues and ideals which adorn
and beautify the home; we have the
same virtue of patriotism (and may
this embrace the world!) ; we speak

RACIAL AMITY
the same language; and, most sig-
nificant of all, we profess the same
religion. If we but put our religion
into practice, and do not quarrel
about its form, this alone would be
sufficient to solve any human prob-
lem. But there is more than this to
consider. In the past the white peo-
ple of America have done a very
noble service to the colored people
of our land, and this is something
we should stop to consider.
About
the time of the civil war you fought
each other for our freedom.
That
is one thing which we should not
wish to forget.
The eloquent Sen-
ator has referred to the progress
made by the colored people in Amer-
ica as distinguished from their back-
ward condition in Africa. This, LOO,
is a service which has come to us
through you, from contact witin your
civilization. This is something h a t
we should appreciate. This is some-
thing that all thoughtful people must
appreciate.
On the other hand, if
you stop to consider the other sid.3
of the question you may find that
there are some services which are
valuable which the black people of
America have rendered the white
people.
Lest I, who am outwardiy
identified
with one racial group
should be thought to be claiming .too
much for my own, I wish to quote to
you the ideas of two distinguished
southerners : Passing through the
city of Atlanta a few months ago I
saw the statue to the Hon. Henry W.
Grady, a statesman of the New
South, and one of its most brilliant
advocates, now passed away. It was
this enlightened statesman and friend
of men who declared that one of the
greatest mistakes ever made was that
this country did not erect a monu-
ment to commemorate the loyalty and
fidelity of black men and women dur-
ing that awful period of the civil war.
About a year ago it was my pleasure
to listen to an ex-confederate soldier,
Doctor Boags of Florida, a man
bowed by the weight of 80 years, who
had come from his home in Florida,
leaving a sick bed, and had taken a
journey to Washington to speak upon
this very question.
The subject
which he selected was the golden rule
applied to the race question, and the
eloquent speech which he delivered
was a vibration of love.
He said
more for us, that ex-confederate vet-
eran, than we are willing, in our
most sanguine moments, to claim for
ourselves. So I say to you that these
enlightened souls saw the relation-
ships of these races to each other.
It is only by co-operation, mutual ap-
preciation, and good will that we can
get anywhere in the solution of these
problems that vex us. If this room
were filled with darkness we could
not remove that darkness by in-
tensifying the darkness, nor can we
remove discord from the lace of
the earth by increasing discord.
Darkness has no reality. Darkness
is only the absence of light. When
the light comes in, darkness disap-
pears of its own motion. So all the
turmoil, and distress, and hatred in
the world are only the absence of this
divine, perfect love.
Therefore let us shed the light of
divine love, a real love, upon all of our
fellow beings, a love for the sake of
God, a love which has no limits, no
boundaries of race, or country, or
clime, or color, or creed, but is a uni-
versal reality of the Sun of Truth
shining from the very Throne of God.
Such a love will remove all these
questions from the world and will
make us realize our relations to each
other as we realize first of all our
relations to God. Without knowing
the divine bounty and the divine love
a man cannot know even himself. I
believe that under the providence of
God this Nation of ours has a bright
destiny-it may reach it through
sorrow, I hope it may achievc it
through joy-and that is, as has
been so eloquently expressed by our

RACIAL
noble friend, thc nations of thc wholc
earth are looking to America for
peace, for the example of ideal
brotherhood.
If they are asking us
for bread, shall we give them a stone?
I believe that America, under the in-
spiration of divine Guidance, will ful-
fill the high ideal of this noble destiny
by fusing with the fire of love, into
one harmonious brotherhood all the
variegated elements of which this
world is composed, and it is incum-
bent upon each individual, just in so
far as he can, to contribute to this
ideal brotherhood; and not only the-
orize about such a condition, but put
his thoughts into action; for the wise
man today is the man who makes his
knowledge practical.
Speaking about the interrelations
between the white and colored peo-
ple; some months ago, traveling
through the city of Monroe I met a
friend who travels much and uses his
eyes. He told me one of his impres-
sions.
He said that if, traveling
through a section of the South, he
came into a community and in this
community saw nothing but white
people, he could .immediately form a
correct impression by their general
bearing and manners, about the hab-
its of their colored neighbors. But if,
on the other hand, he saw nothing
but colored people of the community,
he could also form a very vivid and
corect impression of the habits and
manners of the white people. Now
this may seem somewhat far-fetched,
but you can see that it is the logical
condition with regard to these civil-
izations so closely associated for cen-
turies, that one should be but the re-
flex of the other. Therefore, instead
of being critical toward our fellow
beings, we can most happily occupy
our time by considering what contri-
bution we can ourselves make to the
spirit of
peace and brotherhood
AMITY
t h r o u g h o u t  the world.
If our
thoughts, and our aims, and our
ideals are constructive, they will be
supported in this day by divine con-
firmation and will bring this light 01
peace and brotherhood to all the peo-
ple of the world. Let us not for a
moment be despondent, for the glori-
ous Sun of Reality has dawned and
the light of that Sun now illumines
the whole world. It is only for us to
discover what a great bounty God
has provided for us. "To the state of
holiness He calls us!"
To the ex-
alted state of peace and ideal brother-
hood he sumomns us! If we bring
the best treasures of our minds and
the noblest resources of our hearts,
coming to the aid of the Lord against
the mighty support this happy con-
dition, He wili give to us that inward
peace which shall leave its bright
traces in all the realm of existence.
It will make us true men and women;
it will make us the torch-bearers of
the light of God and will enable us
to transmit a radiance by which the
peace and pleasure and happiness of
the whole world of existence will be
adorned. And there is nothing more
glorious for man than to realize this
bright destiny. God is with us! We
can not fail if we are firm in His
covenant and steadfast in His com-
mands.
This gloomy age will pass
away and the radiance of the divine
love will penetrate the whole earth,
for as 'Abdu'l-Baha the Great Teach-
er says, "There is a mysterious pow-
er a t  work in the hearts which moves
the rocks, which rends the moun-
tains, which creates new spiritual
worlds, which administers all com-
plicated and difficult affairs." This
power will not fail, for it is the vibra-
tion that emanates from the King-
dom of God.

B A H ~ ' ~
YEAR BOOK
THE ECONOMIC TEACHING OF 'ABDU'L-BAHA
BY MARY H. FORD
HE world vision of 'Abdu'l-Bahi
of
the concern for which they
T.
lncluded in every way the better- worked so that they could estimate
ment of mankind. This betterment
the justice of any change contem-
must be physical as well as spiritual plated in the wage scale.
for the enlightened individual can
He declared that strikes could
not continue to exist under condi- never acomplish the end desired by
tions that are only suitable for a
the workers for until they under-
primitive creature.
.stood the financial conditions of the
'Abdu'l-BahL says the day of force firms employing them they would
has passed, the day of love has keep on demanding more and more
dawned. In the ages behind us force
wages in ruinous degree, while if
and competition constituted the laws
they comprehended the financial situ-
of being, but in the period we are ation they would themselves propose
entering love and co-operation will
reasonable measure.
'Abdu'l-Baha
be the dominating principles.
The taught moreover that violent action
Messenger of God, always the Divine invariably produces reaction, thus
Educator in each new age, reveals defeating the end in view, and collec-
laws for the founding of a divine tively or individually brutal force
civilization.
destroys its own purpose.
While in the United States 'Abdu'l-
He said the workers must become
bahi told us how an ideal community
owners of stock in the centers that
might be established.
He also out- employed them and have a share in
lined definitely the changes that
the profits which accrued so that in
would manifest in business methods
the end they would no longer be paid
reflecting the New Era. These he ex- wages but would receive their por-
plained would gradually eliminate tion of the return on work and capital
competition, and substitute co-opera-
invested. He said also that in such
tive means of conducting all sorts of
a plan the employee must be pro-
industrial and commercial enter- tected from loss, because as he did
prises.
He said that employer and not possess capital in cash but rather
employee must be brought together
in his industry there would come lean
so that the management of affairs years in which the financier could
would not rest solely in the hands of
wait comfortably for his delayed divi-
the owners of a factory or insti- dends, on acount of his accumulated
tution, but would permit of consulta- wealth, but at such periods the work-
tion between worker and director, so er endowed only with hands and
that all decisions would result from
brain, must receive the stipend neces-
mutual understanding. Strikes arise sary for his expenses.
he declared because neither worker
When the worker has his seat upon
nor manager feels the point of
the board of management and can
view and temper of the other. He
vote on the rate of wages, the dis-
insisted that workmen must always position of surplus capital, dividends,
be represented on the boards of the employment individual and collective,
companies employing them, that and all questions involving the con-
they must have access to the books trol of the enterprise, then the
and understand the financial status worker and manager will understand

one another and strikes will be com-
pletely eliminated.
This has been
the result wherever such a method
has been inaugurated and it is sur-
prising to observe its rapid increase
in adoption.
'Abdu'l-Bahh's plan is
practically that of the shop commit-
tee system applied many years ago
by Hart Schaffner and Marx the great
clothing firm. It was initiated after
a terrible strike during which the
members of the concern discovered to
their amazement that they did not
understhnd a t  all the conditions of
their employees, and being kindly
people they wished to guard against
the return of a similar situation.
Since then they have had no strikes.
Sidney Hilman has established the
Amalgamated Garment W o r k e r s
Union on the same system. This in-
volves an elected board of workers
and employers which in case of
failure to arrive a t  a majority deci-
sion in any question selects a finan-
cial expert from the outside in whom
both sides have perfect confidence,
who casts the majority vote to which
all submit.
The commercial world has recently
been much interested in the fact that
the Nash Garment Factory of Cincin-
nati whose owner has become famous
under the title of "Golden Rule Nash"
as a result of his endeavor to follow
the Golden Rule in dealing with his
employees, has invited Sidney Hil-
man to organize a branch of the
Amalgamated in the Institution.
Nash never permitted union member-
ship among his employees, declaring
that his own methods and authority
were sufficient to ensure justice
and fair dealing with his people. In
the last two years however his busi-
ness has grown so immensely that he
could no longer keep in personal
touch with his workers and through
the constant intervention of foremen
and superintendents injustice crept
in. He realized that it was necessary
to have help and looking over the
union field was immediately attracted
by the shop committee plan of the
Amalgamated as one which ensured
a continuous understanding between
employers and workers. It is plan-
ned to create harmony and therefore
must eliminate strikes. Perhaps the
most brilliant illustration of such har-
mony is the immense Cochrane
Carpet Factory of Yonkers, where
this method was introduced many
years ago by Alexander Cochrane,
with the most beneficent results.
The establishment is at present on
what is practically a co-operative
basis with the best possible relation-
ship between owners and employees.
'Abdu'l-Baha spoke of a new con-
sciousness that would arise in man-
kind that would render it impossible
for men in future to enjoy great
wealth selfishly. At present a man
lives in a palace in London or New
York, and within a stone's throw of
him are people who never in their
lives have fully satisfied hunger. The
man in the palace enjoys his own
comforts feeling no responsibility for
the others; but by and by he will be-
come so uncomfortable in the knowl-
edge of other men's sufferings that
he can no longer endure his luxury.
Then he will devote his energies to
changing the laws of the community
so that henceforth no One can be
hungry and poverty will be abolished.
The day must come, 'Abdu'l-Bah6 de-
clared, when no city will tolerate
slums, when all children will have
equal rights of education, and when
the rich will even begin to give away
their wealth because of the new con-
sciousness of other's needs which
penetrate them.
We are able to see the fulfillment
of this last prophecy, at least in its
comrneneement, in the immense Car-
negie and Rockefeller Foundations,
and in the numerous cases already in
evidence of people like Dix the gar-

EAR BOOK
ment maker, who having acquired a
fortune of several millions through
the assistance of his faithful em-
ployees, decided that he had enough
money and he would like to offer his
employees an opportunity to be
equally fortunate in business.
So
with the co-operation of his son, he
put his factory into the hands of his
workers at a temporary and nominal
royalty, and with his son served the
new company for a year with no
salary, so that the firm should have
the benefit of experience in its in-
auguration. Within the past year at
least a dozen manufacturing estab-
lishments have followed the example
of Dix which plainly indicates that
another feeling is arising in the
world about the possession of money.
'Abdu'l-Bahk said that in the fu-
ture all economic conditions would be
ameliorated, and the law of brother-
hood would become the basis of life.
As an illustration of future pos-
sibilities he sketched the business
methods of an agricultural village,
saying he chose agriculture because
its proper regulation is the basic
factor in all economic life. He ex-
plained that the organization of the
village would apply to any commun-
ity. According to this system each
citizen of the town owns and tills his
own fields without jurisdiction or
limitation of acreage, but the village
elects a committee of citizens to
market the product of the entire com-
munity and when the harvest is sold
the committee levies a tax on each
producer according to the amount of
surplus he has, beyond the amount
necessary for the support of his
family.
Only the surplus is taxed,
and each is allowed perfect freedom
gs to his expenses; but if his surplus
is large it is quite heavily taxed on
the principles of an ascending tax for
individual wealth.
This last is easily comprehensible to
us from the point of view of the in-
come tax with which we are familiar,
but the application of the tax and its
existence as a fluid income in the
village is not so easily appreciable.
It is an expression of the new econ-
omic consciousness. There will be
some producers, comments 'Abdu'l-
Bahh, whose return will not provide
sufficient income for their needs. For
instance if a farmer has expenses of
five thousand dollars and an income
of twenty thousand, he can pay a con-
siderable tax on the fifteen thousand
surplus which comes to him. But if
a man has expenses of five thousand
dollars and only returns of three
thousand, then he must meet a deficit
of two thousand.
In such a case, says 'Abdu'l-BahB,
he draws two thousand dollars from
the exchequer of the community, and
in this way taxation becomes a fiuid
source of wealth flowing back and
forth among all citizens, banishing
poverty and assuring comfort for
every one. Certainly in such a com-
monwealth there could exist no
slums, there could exist no prejudice,
nor suspicion, nor hatred. To image
it gives one a sense of sympathetic
brotherhood which is almost incon-
ceivable at the present moment. But
its reality lies in the new conscious-
ness that is developing.

WORLD PEACE
WORLD PEACE
BY HARLAN OBER
EE'P in the heart of the world
lies the desire for peace. War,-
vivid,
relentless,
destroying,
has
quickened this desire.
The-Sun of Peace is in the ascent.
The march of events reveals the
growth of a greater and greater urge.
The world is becoming more sensi-
tive and more responsive to those
surging spiritual forces that are at
the heart of the new civilization that
is being builded.
The war brought desolation.
Its
destructive
instruments,
and
its
poisonous gases exceeded the endur-
ance of men. The bodies, the nerves,
the souls of men suffered irreparable
losses because of the tortures that
were inflicted.
Prostration of countries, disturb-
ances of commerce, distress of inhabi-
tants, destruction of sacred relation-
ships, annihilation of the ideals of
established standards resulted from
this cataclysmic affair. We are now
in the period of recovery with its
slow and studied progress, its uncer-
tainties and gropings, its search for
treasures that have been lost. And
with it all has been added another
search, and that is, for treasures
that have never been held in the
hands, but only in the hearts of the
seers and the poets, and the singers
of divine melodies.
The song of the divine singer has
found lodgement in millions of res-
ponsive hearts. The world is becom-
ing internationalized, for in every
country large groups of people are
found whose vision transcends the
artificial boundaries of nations and
enfolds the people of all the earth.
These peoples are entirely convinced
that war is against the welfare of
humanity and an unnecessary institu-
tion. They seek a better way of set-
tling disputes and of providing for
progress.
The agreements, treaties and un-
derstandings entered into between
the various nations, rest upon the ac-
tive and expressed interest and sup-
port of these peoples.
One of the most interesting oc-
curences relates to the practical mo-
bilization of the forces of idealism,
through the c h u r c h e s, colleges,
women's clubs and similar organiza-
tions, and their successful efforts in
overcoming the hosts of doubts, sus-
picions and self interest.
The world is like a great arena in
which ideas are going forth to battle.
A searching light shines down and
under its rays, the truth appears.
Nations that have slumbered are
awakening, races of people that have
been waiting for centuries are taking
up their march. The new freedom
has gripped the souls of millions.
Ancient superstitions have lost their
compelling hold.
Men who have
walked with crutches are stumbling
along a path that will soon see them
running gracefully with stalwart and
beautiful limbs.
Clouds follow the brilliant sun, op-
positions arise and are temporarily
victorious, hut the sun shines on,
while the clouds disappear.
Never was such a brilliant drama
staged before. Mankind is beholding
a world in process of education, the
nerves of humanity being stirred by
the outer and the inner power, old
moulds broken and cast away en-
tirely. Every invention has become
an instrument in this mighty, soul
stirring spectacle, for is it not a part