THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2013-03-02

To the Bahá'ís of Iran

149 23 2 March 2013 To the Bahá’ís of Iran Dearly loved Friends, 23.1 For three and a half decades now, wave after wave of per -

secution, varying in intensity, has battered your sorely tried and valiant community, a barrage that is but the latest in a series unleashed over one hundred and sixty years ago. Yet, contrary to the expectations of those bent on sapping the strength of the community of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers in His homeland, their machinations have served ultimately to reinforce its foundations and fortify its ranks. More and more of your com- patriots, themselves victims of oppression, not only see clearly the trail of injustices that have been perpetrated against Bahá’ís down the years but also recognize in your unbroken record of disinterested service to society a force of constructive change.

As sympathy towards you continues to grow, so do the voices calling for the removal of the obstacles that have prevented you from participating in the life of society in all of its dimensions. Not surprisingly, then, questions regarding the posture held by Bahá’ís everywhere towards political activity have taken on greater significance in the eyes of your fellow citizens. 23.2 Historically, of course, the position in which the Iranian

Bahá’í community has found itself in this respect has been a peculiar one. It has been falsely accused, on the one hand, of being politically motivated, leagued against the prevailing regime—the agent of whatever foreign power the accuser finds most convenient to his purpose. On the other hand, the uncompromising refusal of the members of the community to participate in partisan political activity has been portrayed as a lack of concern for the affairs of the Iranian people. Now that the true intentions of your oppressors have been laid bare, it behooves you to respond to the growing interest of your fellow citizens in understanding the Bahá’í attitude towards 150 FRAMEWORK FOR ACTIONpolitics, lest misconceptions be allowed to weaken the bonds of friendship you are establishing with so many souls. In this, they deserve more than a few statements, however important, that evoke images of love and unity. To assist you in conveying to them a vision of the framework that shapes the Bahá’í approach to the subject, we are providing you with the comments below.

23.3 Inseparable from the Bahá’í perspective on politics is a par -

ticular conception of history, its course and direction. Humanity, it is the firm conviction of every follower of Bahá’u’lláh, is ap- proaching today the crowning stage in a millennia-long process which has brought it from its collective infancy to the threshold of maturity—a stage that will witness the unification of the human race. Not unlike the individual who passes through the unsettled yet promising period of adolescence, during which latent powers and capacities come to light, humankind as a whole is in the midst of an unprecedented transition. Behind so much of the turbulence and commotion of contemporary life are the fits and starts of a humanity struggling to come of age.

Widely accepted practices and conventions, cherished attitudes and habits, are one by one being rendered obsolete, as the imperatives of maturity begin to assert themselves. 23.4 Bahá’ís are encouraged to see in the revolutionary changes

taking place in every sphere of life the interaction of two funda - mental processes. One is destructive in nature, while the other is integrative; both serve to carry humanity, each in its own way, along the path leading towards its full maturity. The operation of the former is everywhere apparent—in the vicissitudes that have afflicted time-honored institutions, in the impotence of leaders at all levels to mend the fractures appearing in the structure of society, in the dismantling of social norms that have long held in check unseemly passions, and in the despondency and indifference exhibited not only by individuals but also by entire societies that have lost any vital sense of purpose. Though devastating in their effects, the forces of disintegration tend to sweep away barriers that block humanity’s progress, opening space for the process of integration to draw diverse groups together and disclosing new opportunities for cooperation and collaboration. Bahá’ís, of course, strive to align themselves, individually and collectively, with forces associated with the process of integration, which, they are confident, will continue to gain in strength, no matter how bleak the immediate hori- 151

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]