!he Baha'is
in Iran

A CRY FROM
THE
HEART

BY THE SAME AUTHOR
The Flame (George Ronald) - with Robert Quigley
God Loves Laughter (George Ronald)
Release The Sun (Baha'i Publishing Trust, Wilmette)
The Wine of Astonishment (George Ronald)
The Prisoner and the Kings (General Publishing Co. Ltd,
Toronto)
Thief in the Night (George Ronald)

A Cry
From the Heart
The Baha'is in Iran
by
WILLIAM
SEARS
GEORGE RONALD
OXFORD

GEORGE
RONALD,
Publisher
46 High Street, Kidlington, Oxford, OX5 2DN
All Rights Reserved
First published 1982
ISBN 0-85398-133-7 (cloth)
ISBN 0-85398-134-5 (paper)
Printed in Great Britain by Richard Clay
(The Chaucer Press) Ltd,
Bungay, Suffolk

Contents
Chapler
Page
Introduction
l.
Nuk
2. A Cry from the Heart
3. Attacks and Accusatiorts
4. Refutation
5. Yazd
6. The House of the Bab
7. Terrible Teheran
8. Hamadan
9. Shiraz
10. Tabriz
11. A Duet of Terror
12. Children
13. The Banner of Islam
14. A New Breed of Martyrs
15. Names
Stop Press

GEORGE
RON A LD, Publisher
46 High Street, Kidlington, Oxford, OX5 2DN
All Rights Reserved
First published I 982
ISBN 0-85398-133-7 (cloth)
1 s B N 0-85398- 134-5 (paper)
Printed in Great Britain by Richard Clay
(The Chaucer Press) Ltd,
Bungay, Suffolk

Contents
Chapter
Page
Introduction
1. Ntik
2. A Cry from the Heart
3. Attacks and Accusatiorts
4. Refutation
5. Yazd
6. The House of the Bab
7. Terrible Teheran
8. Hamadan
9. Shiraz
10. Tabriz
11. A Duet of Terror
12. Children
13. The Banner of Islam
14. A New Breed of Martyrs
15. Names
Stop Press

Introduction
The persecution of the Baha'i community in Iran has
recently become so savage as to attract the attention of
governments, international councils, the media and the
United Nations. The present outburst is conducted in an
organized way with the evident purpose of exterminating
an entire community, the largest religious minority in the
country; indeed, larger than the Jewish, Zoroastrian and
Christian communities together. The leaders of the Baha'i
community have been seized and executed, its holy places
razed, its properties and financial assets attached, many
homes burned, the crops of its farmers destroyed, its
members denied employment and its children expelled
from schools.
A Cry from the Heart is an impassioned account of the
horrors perpetrated against an innocent people. It is
written by an eminent Western Baha'i who has travelled
extensively in Iran visiting the Baha'i community there. It
is a refutation of the false and contradictory charges
levelled against them, and an expose of the genocidal
purpose of the present outbreak. It is up to date and
authentic.

Nuk
Mut,.ammad-I:Iusayn and Shikkar-Nisa' had just returned
to their house after a long, hard day's work in the fields of
their farm. Their name is Ma'~umf. They lived in a tiny
little almost forgotten hamlet, a spot on the road, called
Nuk.
Remember it. It rhymes with 'wonderful'!
The story begins on November 22, 1980. Seven months
before I began writing these pages.
A full moon was shining and splashing its friendly light
on the few scattered houses of their small village.
Mut,.ammad and Shikkar-Nisa' washed away the stains of
their day's work, said their prayers and ate their dinner.
They had left-over mutton from a sheep which had been
smoked the previous day to be used during the cold, bitter
winter when times would be hard.
After dinner they shelled almonds with a small
hammer, preparing a store for the winter. It was a
cheerful noise. They laughed and talked as they worked.
It was well after nine o'clock when they had just
decided to take their tea.
Shikkar-Nisa' prepared the samovar, lighted the fire
under it, and they resumed their shelling, waiting for the
water to boil. They had done it a thousand times. It was
one of the most pleasant and peaceful times of the day.
Relaxing, recuperating, resting the aching bones after a
day's work well done. It was a time to be grateful.

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
At that happy moment between husband and wife,
their lives were almost at an end.
Masked and armed men were scaling the garden wall.
They moved silently and stealthily toward the house.
The sound of the hammer on the almond shells as
Mu4ammad and Shikkar-Nisa' laughed and competed
with each other drowned out the careful approach of the
killers.
It was like a scene from Shakespeare:
Enter First Murderer!
It was 10.00 p.m. exactly. November 22, 1980.
The moon was in full splendour when Mu4ammad-
I:Iusayn said, 'I must go to the stable and fill the feeding
trough for the sheep.'
'Hurry back,' Shikkar-Nisa' told him, 'or your tea will
be cold.'
It was the last time she would see her husband alive, the
last words she would ever say to him.
Shikkar-Nisa' swept up the almonds, and started to
finish her own tea, when she heard the outside door open.
There was a curtain across the inner door, so she called
out:
'Mu4ammad?'
No reply.
Suddenly, several masked men swept into the room.
In the dim light of the kerosene lamp, Shikkar-Nisa'
could not tell they were masked. She turned to them with
a smile. She liked people. Even unexpected visitors.
As they moved into the light, Shikkar-Nisa' saw they
were masked. She cried out, dropped her half-filled glass
of tea to the floor, and tried to escape. They seized her
roughly by the arms and dragged her across the room.
She cried out.
'Mu4ammad!'
One of the masked men choked her to keep her quiet.
Shikkar-Nisa' moaned. She begged them not to hurt
her husband. Do whatever they wanted to her, she cried,

NUK
but don't harm Muq.ammad. Her pleas went unanswered.
They choked off further comment.
Still no word had yet been spoken by the attackers.
Masks can cover the face: spoken words can identify the
speakers.
The marauders carried a heavy wooden door from the
corner of the house. They tied Shikkar-Nisa' tightly with
rope, placed the door on top of her, placed dry wood on
top of the door, poured the C'.mtents of a kerosene lamp
over the wood, and splashed her clothing.
Even when she realized that they intended to burn her
alive, her only thought was for the safety of her husband,
Muq.ammad.
The arsonists threw a lighted match. The fumes flashed
into fire. They watched until they were sure the flames
were high enough to burn Shikkar-Nisa' to ashes in a
short time. With a grunt of satisfaction, they left. It was
only part of their night's work.
Now, it was Muq.ammad's turn.
They knew exactly where to find him.
Shikkar-Nisa' tried to scream and warn him. It was
useless.
She later told her neighbours, 'My whole life, a flood of
memories, the children growing up, all passed through my
mind. Strangely enough, my fear turned to calm, as I
waited for the flames. I could think only of my husband,
Muq.ammad. I cried out in anguish and prayer.'
Shikkar-Nisa' knew they were being killed because
they were Baha'is. They had been warned that it was
dangerous to be a Baha'i these days. What days was it not,
in Iran? It would be wiser, they were told, to give up their
Faith. They always gently but firmly refused. They were
now paying for it.
The heat surrounding Shikkar-Nisa' became intense. The
pain almost unendurable. But the flames reached the

A CRY FROM THE HEART
nylon ropes, melted them, and Shikkar-Nisa' was able to.
free herself.
Half of her body was burned and charred. Crying and
moaning, she seized her husband's overcoat, wrapped her-
self in it, and ran outside. She couldn't find Mu4ammad
anywhere. She rushed to the nearest house for help.
The neighbours cautiously opened the door. They were
not Baha'is and it was dangerous to become involved in
things that happened at night. They were horrified to see
her terrible condition, and their children started crying.
Shikkar-Nisa' told them what had happened. She
asked them please to help her find her husband. They
refused to leave the house. They were afraid. One man,
however, did agree to go up on the roof to see what he
could.
He could see nothing, he said, even though the moon
was full.
Shikkar-Nisa' realized they did not intend to help her.
She borrowed a hurricane lamp and, carrying it in her
burned hands, rushed out to begin her own search. Along
the road, she saw a crumpled form fallen in a ditch. It was
her dear husband, Mu4ammad.
'I found to my horror,' Shikkar-Nisa' later wept, 'that I
was too late! He was dead. He had been burned to death
in the path of his Beloved.'
Neighbours said later that many of them had heard
Mul).ammad-.f:lusayn's cries of anguish as the masked
murderers had seized him and set him afire. The
neighbours had gone to their windows and opened their
doors to peep out to see what was happening. They
admitted witnessing the death of this brave man, but no
one had gone to his rescue. He and his wife were Baha'is,
after all, and Baha'is were in trouble with the authorities.
They were probably spies, as people said, and deserved to
die.
When Shikkar-Nisa' saw the charred body of her dear
husband, she wept bitterly.

NUK
'This is a heartless, cruel murder,' she said to those few
who had finally come out of their houses to see what had
happened. 'We have shown you nothing but love and
kindness for all these years, and you have done this
terrible thing to us.'
She knew it had not been strangers hiding behind those
masks.
Silently, everyone returned to his home. Not one
neighbour would stay to help poor Shikkar-Nisa' take the
body of her murdered husband home. No one even
volunteered to inform her son-in-law who lived in Zirk, a
neighbouring village, half a mile away.
Witnesses reported that the ringleader was startled and
alarmed to see Shikkar-Nisa' still alive and standing by
the ditch. He was afraid she might be able to identify him.
Seeing her alone, after the neighbours had left, he hurried
to her side as though to help. Shikkar-Nisa' was weeping.
They reported later that this criminal tried to finish off
the helpless woman by striking her violently before
rushing off. After he left, Shikkar-Nisa' could no longer
talk. She had lost the power of speech.
In the middle of the night this poor, half-burned
woman, broken-hearted, hardly able to walk, was forced
to abandon the charred remains of her husband. No one
would help. Slowly she made her way home, and locked
herself alone in the now empty house.
Her son-in-law came the next day.
He found his father-in-law lying in the ditch covered
with ashes, his face black with soot. He was told more of
the tragic story by eyewitnesses who were not as afraid to
talk in the daylight as they had been in the dark.
The murderers, they said, had soaked Muq.ammad-
ijusayn with fuel, and set him ablaze. Then they began
shouting at him:
'Run! Run!'
The piteous man, already a human torch, ran as best he
could. He fell into the ditch, crying with the agony of

Shikkar-Nisa'
Mu~ammad-l;Iusayn

NOK
pain. They piled wood on top of him, splashed it with
more kerosene, and burned him to death. Delighted with
their night's work, they warmed themselves by the fire
before leaving.
Shikkar-Nisa' still could not speak. Her only response
to her son-in-law's first questions was the tears which
flowed down her cheeks as she kept pointing toward the
place where Mul}.ammad had been murdered. She was so
terribly burned that she had to be carefully wrapped in a
blanket and taken in that fashion on the bus to the
hospital.
By then she was in a coma, and she died six days later.
Shikkar-Nisa'
is buried with her martyred husband,
Mul}.ammad-f:lusayn, side by side, united in death as they
were in !if e.
Look at them Nuk, these two darling souls. They are
from your village.
Such a tiny little place, who would ever know what you
did there? It seemed safe to kill them, didn't it? Who
would ever find out?
Now, you know. The whole world has found out. Your
brave victory is being shared with people in more than a
hundred thousand places in the world, and with their
friends in a hundred thousand more. Everywhere knows
about Nuk today. Everybody. Everywhere. Even the
name of the ringleader of the arsonists and murderers is
known. His mask has been removed.
No, he won't be punished for his crime. Not in Iran.
After all, those they killed were only Baha'is; the only two
Baha 'is in the village.

A Cry from the Heart
The Baha'is in Iran are my personal friends. I have met
many of them face to face, stayed in their homes, played
with their children, attended their meetings, marvelled at
their heroic history and felt the warmth of their love and
kindness. They are at this very moment the victims of a
ruthless campaign of persecution and terrorism designed
to exterminate them in the land of their birth.
That is why I am writing this book.
There is nothing official about it. It is strictly personal.
It is exactly what the title says it is: a cry from the heart!
What you will like most about it is that I don't want
anything. I'm not asking for your money, your time, or
your support. I don't want you to intervene on behalf of
my fell ow Baha'is in Iran. I am not asking you for a single
thing.
You may find that refreshing!
As the author, I will not receive any royalties or money
from it.
Of course I do want you to read the book, and if it
meets with your interest, to share it with your friends.
You know what is happening to my friends.
That is why I call my book A Cry from the Heart.
Recent events in Iran (the ancient land of Persia) have
focussed the attention of the world's mass media on it.
The Baha'i Faith has been mentioned frequently, promi-
nently, and always inaccurately by spokesmen of the
present regime in Iran.

A CRY FROM
THE
HEART
II
I am ref erring to the official spokesmen and to their
interviews in North America, South America, and
Europe. They have made many misleading statements
and false accusations against the Baha'i Faith in the press,
and on both radio and television.
These false statements have been made not unwittingly,
unintentionally, or mistakenly. By no means. They were
not innocent or accidental. They were deliberate. They
are all part of a carefully conceived, well-organized,
nation-wide plan of extermination, the purpose of which
is to wipe out an entire religious minority, namely, the
Baha'i community in Iran, and to do it without letting the
world become aware that this is their purpose, one to
which they are wholly committed and dedicated.
As a former television and radio performer, I know the
tremendous influence and impact of the media. I shudder
to think what a dreadfully false picture of the Baha'i
Faith is being created in the minds of those who see, hear
or read these damaging reports.
Even the members of my own family, and friends who
were not Baha'is, have become upset and concerned.
They recognized the misrepresentations, of course, but
were annoyed that no one was crying, 'Foul!'
I was furious myself.
I said: 'Enough is enough!'
And that is how I came to write A Cry from the Hearl. It
was the start of my campaign: one Baha'i against
injustice.
Personal. Individual. Unofficial.
I decided not to let these deliberate misrepresentations,
made so craftily and persistently against such a sweet,
soul-stirring, world-healing Faith which I love, go unan-
swered any longer. I decided to tell the man on the street
and the great masses of mankind exactly what was
happening in Iran, and why.
The Founders of the Baha'i Faith, its early teachers, its
heroes and heroines, its martyrs and saints were all, of

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
course, Persian. Consequently no country in all the world
is dearer to Baha'is than Iran. But when writing of the
outrages visited on my co-religionists there I may get a
little salty on my own, and express a few sincere personal
feelings about these outrages. This will not, however,
change the fundamental, universal principles of love and
unity which are part of every Baha'i life, and every Baha'i
community in the world, including Iran.
I do not plan to be detached or serenely objective. I am
going to turn over the flat rock, so be prepared.
The atrocities taking place against Baha'is today
throughout Iran are no longer matters of suspicion or
opinion. They are matters of fact. The proof can be found
in the records of libraries, newsrooms, United Nations
Agencies, human rights organizations, telex and cable
files in every part of the world.
The spotlight of world publicity has now been turned
directly upon Iran. It is no longer a secret that the killings,
burnings, lootings, and torture of Baha'is are still continu-
ing, even as these pages are being written. It is no longer
possible for the persecutors to suppress or minimize the
enormity of their crimes, or to hide anonymously behind
the fiction of 'uncontrollable mobs'.
Those days are over!
Confiscation of property, of bank accounts, burning
and looting of homes, officially sanctioned executions of
innocent victims - all these things take place everywhere,
in the streets, in the market-place, and in the homes.
The Baha'is are harassed, beaten, abused, killed.
Sometimes husband and wife together. Or an entire
family. Or a group of close friends, or neighbours, or
business associates. Chosen at random. At the whim of
the killers.
Stabbed, stoned, hanged, burned alive, hacked to
pieces with knives, stood before firing-squads.
Men, women, children. No one is spared.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Their crime?
They are Baha'is.
These attacks have been going on for nearly one
hundred and fifty years.
The first onslaught of the current persecutions began in
1978. It is now in its fourth year. The severity and spread
of the outrages increase each day and become ever more
sinister. There is no end in sight, and no sign of a let-up.
What is most alarming and threatening about the
present avalanche is not its violence; that has always
occurred. It is the devilish ingenuity of the assault
designed to eliminate an entire community of nearly half
a million souls. The terror has now spread into every level
of Baha'i life, to city dweller, villager and farmer.
At first the Baha'i business houses, the repository of the
savings of rich and poor Baha'is alike, were confiscated,
with no recompense. Then the great Baha'i hospital in
Teheran, built, operated and fully supported by Baha'is,
where patients of all religions and backgrounds were
treated with the same loving care, was taken over. Next,
Baha'i holy places throughout the country were occupied
and put to whatever use, often personal, the revolutionary
authorities, equally often the man with a gun, might
decide. The meeting-places of the local communities were
next to be taken. Then, having deprived this helpless
community, which has no rights in law, of its funds,
hospital, holy places and religious properties, attention
was turned to the leaders of the community. All nine
members of the National Spiritual Assembly were kid-
napped (see p. 211) and have not been heard of, except by
rumour, to this day. Outstanding Baha'is in the provincial
communities were next and many of those have been
executed. The obvious aim is to get rid of the capable,
trusted, elected leaders before launching the attack on the
rank and file.
The Baha'i community they are trying to destroy is the

A CRY FROM THE HEART
largest religious minority in Iran. It has more members
than the Christian, Jewish and Zoroastrian communities
combined. In spite of this, the Baha'i Faith is not
recognized and Baha'is are deprived of their basic human
rights. There is no one and no place in the entire country
they can approach for protection. They cannot appeal to
the clergy, to the courts, or to the authorities. The clergy
and their religious courts are the authorities.
They are engaged in a process which the entire civilized
world has always been against.
It is called: Genocide!
In the first half of this century, a society was founded in
Iran for the purpose of exterminating the Baha'is in that
country. Its members were motivated solely by religious
fanaticism and hatred. They called themselves the Society
for the Promotion of Islam but have been publicly
referred to by a leading ayatollah, Shaykh Ali Teherani,
as the anti-Baha'i Society. For a number of years they
were a loosely-knit force, taking any convenient opportu-
nity to harass and kill Baha'is. In the 1940s however, they
began to suspect the advantages of organization and from
then on became not only the sworn enemies of the Baha'i
Faith but the constant prodders of the authorities to move
against its unprotected members. They instigated the
pogrom of 1955 and are behind the present scheme of
extermination. The authorities, complaisant before and
always ready to use the Baha'is as scapegoats to divert
attention from the general condition of life in Iran, are
now, in the new regime of die-hard ayatollahs, more than
willing to give full reign to these fanatics.
Authorized and approved terrorists are brutalizing and
victimizing members of the Baha'i Faith in villages and
towns across the face of the entire country. Hundreds,
their properties looted, burned or confiscated, are fleeing
from rural areas to seek refuge in the larger cities.
Even as these pages are being written.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Death has been brought to Baha'is by the use of
Guns
Axes
Knives
Stoning
Stabbing
Strangling
Beating to death with fists, boots and clubs
Hanging
Hacking to death with spades and shovels
Burning alive (both men and women)
Firing-squads
The knowledge of this annihilation plot has already
gone round the world. The catalogue of Persian persecu-
tions is well known everywhere. They are being watched,
hour by hour, day by day.
What the fanatics do not seem to have realized is the
great world-wide spread of the Baha'i Faith. They are so
blinded by their passionate hatred for the Baha'i commu-
nity in Iran, and their determination to uproot it, that they
seem almost totally unaware of the phenomenal growth it
has achieved in the world. Very likely they would be
astonished to know that the things which they hate and
detest the most about the Baha'is are the very things for
which the Baha'i Faith is admired and respected in the
world outside Iran.
There are Baha'i communities, some tiny, some very
big, in more than one hundred thousand centres in almost
every part of the planet, all raising their cries of
indignation and protest.
The Baha'i International Community at the United
Nations, where the Baha'is enjoy 'consultative sta-
tus' among the Non-Governmental
Organizations of
ECOSOC, is taking the lead in calling the attention of the
world's nations, governments and leaders of thought to
the persecution of the Baha'i community now taking

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
place in Iran. A number of sovereign governments, as
well as associations such as the European Economic
Community and the European Parliament, human rights
organizations and humanitarian
societies have made
representations to the authorities in Iran.
Many others have arisen spontaneously to add their
voices of protest, not because they were especially for the
Baha'is, but because they were against all forms of
persecution and oppression.
To them all, without exception, I offer my warmest
appreciation on behalf of my beleaguered brothers and
sisters.
The Baha'i World Community has already expressed
its official thanks.
We are grateful.
This book, however, has quite a different purpose.
It is not an appeal to those in positions of influence,
power or authority. It is not a formal, reasoned White
Paper to be shared with the leaders of men, or an elegant
diplomatic response to the horrendous happenings that
are taking the lives of my fellow Baha'is in Iran.
Far from it.
It is a call to the people of the world, the masses of
mankind, to the final court of human appeal.
I have great confidence in the man on the street. I want
him to know the truth. In the future, whenever the name
Iran is mentioned, and the name Baha'i is associated with
it, I want every man, woman and child in the entire world
to be able to tell the 'good guys' from the 'bad guys'.
You are about to find out which is which.
You make the decision.

Attacks and Accusations
You will be thinking, 'What is this all about?' 'Who are
these Baha'is and what do they believe to arouse such
passions?' The answer is plain and simple. Baha'is believe
that a new messenger from God has come to bring about
the long-promised unity and brotherhood of all mankind
- the Kingdom promised by Christ and confirmed by
Muhammad. And that is anathema to the Muslim clergy
in Iran. Their response is fanatical hatred: kill, torture,
exterminate.
One of their worst attempts was made in 1955 when the
Shah's regime was only halted by the personal interven-
tion of the Secretary-General of the United Nations, Mr
Dag Hammarskjold. In the face of world opinion the
Shah restrained the mullas. Now they have overthrown
him and are not worried by world opinion, and they
pursue their avowed intention to erase forever the Baha'i
community in Iran, and to extinguish permanently its
light.
Of course you don't believe what I'm saying. Not yet.
But before this book is ended, I think you will believe it.
This scheme is quite simple. Extermination.
The list of each and every one of their violations of
religious freedom and human rights guaranteed by the
documents which their country subscribed to at the
United Nations is known the world over. A detailed
record of all abuses is being kept.
Among the current persecutions of the Baha'i commu-

A CRY FROM THE HEART
nity in Iran - oppressions already recorded and protested
to Iranian embassies, charges d'affaires and foreign
ministers of governments - are the following:
I. Illegal arrests without warrants
2. Wholesale imprisonments
without proper charges and authority;
of Baha'i lawyers who come to defend those
arrested;
with prisoners held incommunicado, their where-
abouts unknown to families and friends
3. Illegal trials with no chance for proper defence
4. Illegal, summary executions
5. Last Wills and Testaments, hastily written by those
to die, withheld from survivors and families
6. Houses broken into by masked marauders who
threaten, beat, and sometimes kill
7. Homes confiscated, looted, contents auctioned off
and proceeds kept by authorities or looters
8. Houses, several score across the land, burned to the
ground; families evicted, left homeless, their chil-
dren included
9. Private possessions of victims seized and sold; even
personal jewellery stripped away and either kept or
sold
10. Kidnappings of well-known and loved Baha'is, their
whereabouts unknown
11. Businesses invaded, closed, sold, sometimes burned;
monies kept
12. Private bank accounts confiscated
13. Children ridiculed in the streets, insulted, beaten,
expelled from schools, denied education, and made
homeless in many parts of the land
14. Baha'i marriages not recognized
15. Baha'i farms destroyed; farmers chased off their
land

ATTACKS
AND ACCUSATIONS
16. Orchards levelled to the ground*
17. Crops burned*
18. Cattle and livestock slaughtered
19. Radio and television describe the 'punishment' of
Baha'is as treatment given to criminals
These attacks are not diminishing. The increase in
number is gravely alarming, both in their intensity and
spread.
The entire Baha'i community in Iran is under fierce
fire, and is fighting for its very life. As I write this the
following message has been sent from the Baha'i World
Centre to the Baha'is all over the world:
PERSECUTION BAHA'IS IRAN GAINING MOMENTUM ENTERING
NEW PHASE: IN Y AZD A FEW DAYS AGO GOVERNMENT FROZE
ALL ASSETS 117 BELIEVERS. ON 8 AUGUST ANNOUNCEMENT ON
LOCAL RADIO SUMMONED HEADS 150 PROMINENT BAHA'I FAMI-
LIES TO REPORT WITHIN ONE WEEK TO REVOLUTIONARY
AUTHORITIES.
IN ABSENTIA DECREES TO BE ISSUED RESPECT
ANY NAMED BELIEVER WHO FAILS PRESENT HIMSELF BY IS
AUGUST. AMONG NAMES ARE FEW WHO PASSED AWAY, CON-
FIRMING DETERMINATION
AUTHORITIES PERSECUTE BAHA'IS
PURELY FOR THEIR BELIEF, NOT BECAUSE OF ANY ALLEGED
CRIME. ONE OF THOSE NAMED WAS ARRESTED AS HE WAS
PROCEEDING FOR NECESSARY TEMPORARY JOURNEY OUTSIDE
YAZD.
ACTIONS TAKEN
FORESHADOW
PLAN AUTHORITIES
FORCE BAHA'IS RECANT THEIR FAITH ON PAIN CONFISCATION
ALL THEIR PROPERTIES, OTHER DIRE CONSEQUENCES.
URGE
SHARE NEWS THESE OMINOUS DEVELOPMENTS WITH YOUR
GOVERNMENT GIVE WIDE COVERAGE NEWS MEDIA HELP CON-
* They ignore the guidance of their own Holy Book: ' ... but agress
not: God loves not the aggressors.' (Koran 2: line 187, A. J. Arberry, The
Koran Interpreted, London, 1955). A footnote to this Sura in another
translation explains: 'In any case strict limits must not be transgres-
sed ... nor trees and crops cut down.' These are the people who accuse
the Baha'is of being against Islam, the Koran, and Muhammad.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
VINCE AUTHORITIES STAY HAND OPPRESSION DIRECTED MEM-
BERS INNOCENT COMMUNITY.
FURTHER REPORT JIJST RECEIVED INDICATES IN MANSHAD
VILLAGE NEAR YAZD GOVERNMENT
OFFICIAL FROM YAZD
ACCOMPANIED REVOLUTIONARY GUARDS HAS PEREMPTORILY
SEIZED FURNITURE CROPS LIVESTOCK LOCAL BELIEVERS.
FOLLOWING
DETAILS ADDITIONAL PERSECUTIONS OTHER
PROVINCES NOW IN HAND:
IN MASJID SULAYMAN AUTHORITIES
HAVE INSTRUCTED
BANKS
SUBMIT
LIST
ALL CHECKING
AND
DEPOSIT
ACCOUNTS BAHA'IS.
IN NAYSHABUR WHERE TWO BELIEVERS WERE RECENTLY
MARTYRED MOB HAD DESTROYED WALL BAHA'I CEME-
TERY. AUTHORITIES
NOW CLAIM TWO MILLION RIALS
FROM LOCAL COMMUNITY TO RESTORE WALL.
IN HIMMAT-ABAD NEAR ABADIH WIVES OF BELIEVERS WHO
HAD FLED FROM THEIR HOMES HAVE BEEN GIVEN NOTICE
CALL THEIR HUSBANDS. WIVES THREATENED GRAVE RE-
PERCUSSIONS IF HUSBANDS FAIL PRESENT THEMSELVES.
ADD ABOVE ADDITIONAL ITEMS TO APPEAL YOUR GOVERN-
MENT AND MEDIA BUT MAIN EMPHASIS SHOULD BE PERILOUS
SITUATION YAZD, UNKNOWN FATE SOME SEVEN SCORE DE-
VOTED BELIEVERS. HOPEFUL IMMEDIATE ACTION WILL FORE-
STALL DANGEROUS
CONSEQUENCES
BEFORE SATURDAY 15
AUGUST.
I know that a great many other people in Iran are being
killed because they are displeasing to the revolutionary
regime, but there is one very important difference
between them and the Baha'is. They have no choice but to
face the firing-squad. The Baha'is have. If they will
renounce their Faith and say they are Muslims, or even
just not Baha'is, they can go free.
Their homes and looted possessions will be restored to
them: those that have not been burned or sold. Their
businesses will be restored to them: those that have not

ATTACKS
AND ACCUSATIONS
been dismantled or burned. Their bank accounts will be
given back: those that have not already been spent or
shared among the arsonists, looters, and official confisca-
tors.
The villagers, farmers and needy Baha'is who invested
their tiny incomes in these Baha'i companies to protect
their future with pensions will, of course, be taken care of.
'Taken care of', to a Baha'i in Iran, can mean almost
anything.
If individual Baha'is will recant and deny their Faith
they are promised a much brighter future. Their children
will be able to return to school: those who are well
enough, and who haven't been expelled permanently.
The firing-squads will be called off. The violence will
cease. The 'uncontrollable' mobs will be controlled. No
further killings of Baha'is will either be authorized or
permitted.
All the Baha'i is required to say is that one simple
phrase:
'I am not a Baha'i.'
No more nonsense about spying for Israel, or having
supported Savak, or the Shah's regime; we all know those
things were just part of the game. The real issue is that
you are a Baha'i. Just say you are not and you'll be free,
and you will be exonerated from the charges against you.
As an added incentive to encourage this nation-wide
denial of faith, the Baha'is in Iran have now been given
yet another ultimatum:
'Either renounce your Faith, and say that you are not
Baha'is, or surrender the deeds to all your properties. If
you refuse, they will be taken from you by force. Your
houses will either be sold or burned.'
The Baha'is must either recant and thus put an end to
their Faith in Iran, or surrender all they own, home,
property, and possessions, so there will be no roots for
them to put down for their families, and thus the Baha'i
Faith will perish.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
The authorities in Iran leave the Baha'is no other
choice. It is one or the other, with a death here and there
to encourage the stubborn.
To assist further the truly obstinate Baha'is in making
their renunciations, masked enforcers who specialize in
brutality and spirit-breaking, force their way into Baha'i
homes in the dead of night. They appear masked and
armed. Suddenly they are standing over the bed, awaken-
ing father, mother and children.
They arouse the entire family to the sound of loud
voices and the display of guns, threatening their lives
while they are still dazed with sleep.
The terrorists warn the family that everyone is about to
be killed. This includes the children who, still rubbing
their sleepy eyes, have no idea what it is all about. Only
that it's hard to be a Baha'i.
The masked marauders raise their weapons and fire. It
is the noise of thunder. Terrifying. The children cry. You
wonder why you are not dead.
Then you realize that they have missed you deliber-
ately. This time.
Laughing all the while, enjoying the murder-game,
they fire at you, your wife and the children a second time.
Again they miss. More laughter. Next time, they warn, it
will mean death. The end of your entire family. Unless
you recant.
'We will be back,' they threaten.
They tell you exactly what will happen then to you and
your entire family unless you all either deny your Faith,
or surrender the titles and deeds to all your property and
resources.
The fun is over. The masked torturers leave. More
threats at the door. Another volley. Another miss. More
raucous laughter as they disappear into the night, leaving
the children shaking and terrified.
It is time for you to pray. And for your children to cry.
They will come again.

ATTACKS
AND ACCUSATIONS
They do.
This time they kill.
I have listed below the major accusations made
currently against the Baha'i Faith in Iran.
I plan to answer clearly, categorically, and completely,
every one of these baseless and false accusations. I shall
deal with them one at a time, and shall, I believe, by
showing how fraudulent they are, demolish their absurd
and grotesque misrepresentations of the Baha'i Faith.
I mean business, and do not plan to avoid any of these
false charges, however absurd and shameful.
I have not listed them in any particular order. I have
merely emphasized those which have been repeated most
often and most insultingly during the present attacks.
Accusations
I. The Baha'i Faith, far from being a religion, is a
subversive and heretical sect which plans to estab-
lish its own regime in Iran.
2. The Baha'i Faith is a political party which sup-
ported the regime of Muhammad Reza Shah, and
received favours from him.
3. The Baha'is are agents of foreign powers, such as
the United States and Russia, and of British
imperialism.
4. The Baha'is are 'spies' for Israel, and secretly
collaborate with international Zionism. They con-
tribute financially to the support oflsrael which aids
that country against its Arab and Muslim neigh-
bours.
5. The Baha'is have their World Centre in Israel, and
therefore must be hostile to Iran and to the current
Islamic Revolution.
6. The Baha'is travel frequently to and from Israel,
carrying and receiving information against Iran and
other Arab nations.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
7. The Baha'is are against Islam and Muhammad, the
Prophet of Islam, and insult His holy Book, the
Koran.
8. There have been Baha'is in high places in the
political life of Iran, although they claim they do not
become involved in politics. A Baha'i was once
Prime Minister. Others served in lesser ministerial
capacities.
9. The Baha'is of Iran are quite different from those in
other lands. In Iran they are politically oriented.
10. One of the heads of the dreaded secret police, Savak,
and others of its high-ranking officers, have been
members of the Baha'i Faith.
I I. Et cetera, et cetera, et cetera.
Those ten will do for a start. Lesser false charges, we
are sure, will be washed out to sea as a fringe benefit of
finding the basic ten accusations totally erroneous and
completely false.
Some of my public-relations friends have told me, 'It's
a mistake to list all ten of those charges against your
Faith. Even if they're not true.'
'Why?'
'Because many people probably don't know about all of
them.'
'Good! I want them to know. And the sooner I get at
the refutations the better.'

Refutation
ACCUSATION
The Baha'i Faith is a subversive and heretical sect. It wishes
to set up its own regime in Iran, and overthrow the present
government. Therefore no punishment is too severe for such
an enemy of Iran.
THE TRUTH
If the authorities in Iran had read the papers, documents
and books which they have confiscated from so many
Baha'i Centres, instead of destroying them, as well as
burning and vandalizing the Baha'i properties which they
have entered unlawfully, they would have known that
fundamental Baha'i teaching which forbids its followers
to take part in any subversive activity or to be members of
political parties.
Forbids, not discourages.
Loyalty to government under all circumstances, even
beneath the dreadful scourge of the persecutions visited
upon them by the present authorities in Iran, does not
change this belief. Loyalty to government is absolutely
basic and binding upon every Baha'i. It is one of the most
fundamental Baha'i principles.
The Baha'i teachings, which are the same for every
country in the world, state plainly and emphatically that
In every country where any of this people reside, they
must behave towards the government of that country

A CRY FROM THE HEART
with loyalty, honesty and truthfulness. This is that
which hath been revealed at the behest of Him Who is
the Ordainer, the Ancient of Days.
The contention that the Baha'i Faith is not a religion,
but a heretical sect, has been used by the Iranian
authorities ever since its birth, to justify their inhuman
treatment of its members. The question is best answered
by those who are not Baha'is, but who are specialists in
the field of religion and history.
The world-famous historian, Arnold Toynbee, has
written about the Baha'i Faith as a religion, saying:
My opinion is that (1) Baha'ism is undoubtedly a
religion. (2) Baha'ism is an independent religion, on a
par with Islam, Christianity, and the other recognized
world religions. Baha'ism is not a sect of some other
religion; it is a separate religion, and has the same
status as other recognized religions.
Except in Iran, that is.
The successive regimes in Iran have done all in their
power to convince themselves and the world that the
Baha'i Faith is a 'sect' and not an independent world
religion. To get people to believe it has become more and
more difficult for them.
It is much easier to deprive an obscure sect of all its
human rights, than an independent religion on a par with
Islam and Christianity. Such a world Faith will, in the
end, overwhelm such prejudice and hate with love.
Christ was a Jew, born among the Jews, but Christian-
ity is an independent religion though it was first called a
sect of Judaism.
Buddha was born among the Hindus, but His religion,
Buddhism, was an independent religion though it was
thought for a long time to be a sect of Hinduism.
Baha'u'llah was born among the Muslims, but His
religion, the Baha'i Faith, is an independent religion no

REFUTATION
matter how loudly and angrily the enemies of the Baha'i
Faith in Iran describe it as a sect - subversive, dangerous,
and worthy of death.
Dr Raymond Frank Piper, not a Baha'i, while a
member of the Philosophy Department of Syracuse
University in New York State, said: 'The Baha'i teachings
are providentially loaded with precisely the goods which
we direly need in this catastrophic era.'
Dr Piper described the Baha'i Faith as 'one of the
noblest of the world's religions.'
Not noblest sect, noblest religion.
He added this about the Baha'is and their religion:
They [the Baha'is] have long set their wills to attain
those world institutions which we are just now finding
indispensable for peace. The Baha'i teachings can
contribute immensely, I believe, to that training for
world citizenship which we sorely need. The amazing
fitness of these teachings to our needs and their peculiar
timeliness are two facts which attest their divine origin.
There is an entire publication called Appreciations of
the Baha'i Faith. It is a tribute to the fellowship, love and
unity which the Baha'i religion brings into the world.
Former President of Czechoslovakia, Eduard Benes,
not a Baha'i, said of the Baha'i Faith that it was 'one of
the spiritual forces now absolutely necessary to put the
spirit first in this battle against material forces'. He added:
'The Baha'i teaching is one of the great instruments for
the final victory of the spirit and of humanity.'
There is a secondary charge made in this accusation,
stating that the Baha'i Faith wishes to set up its own
regime in Iran and overthrow the government.
You have already heard the refutation of that absurd
accusation. No Baha'i, and no Baha'i institution, could
ever participate in such a violent 'subversive' action. Such
intolerable behaviour is forbidden in the writings of the
Baha'i Faith.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Anyone who has even the slightest knowledge about
the Baha'i Faith and its teachings would recognize that
the charge is not only fraudulent, but laughable.
However, out of respect for those who may not yet
know very much about this world religion, let me once
again turn to a source outside the Baha'i Faith as a further
answer to this baseless charge.
When this same accusation was made during the
regime of the late Shah, at the time of the terrible
persecutions of Baha'is in Iran in 1955, Dr Hugh van
Rensselaer of Brooklyn College, a highly-respected edu-
cator, not a Baha'i, answered it clearly and succinctly. He
came to the aid of the Baha'is who were being persecuted
during those hideous days of 1955, not as a supporter of
the Baha'i Faith, but as a lover of mankind. He spoke
against all persecution, writing of the Baha'is:
My purpose in saying this is not to save the Baha'i
adherents from suffering - although no kind-hearted
person desires to see anyone suffer. Rather, my purpose
is to save Iran from making upon the world an
impression of being uncivilized. The stories about a
Baha'i threat to set up a Baha'i regime in Iran are no
more convincing than were the German stories about
the Jews and about the Poles when Hitler wanted an
excuse to persecute Jews and Poles. The stories sound
like the inventions of men who wish to have a pretext,
even if it is a fictitious pretext, to justify their per-
secutions. This is not civilized.
It wasn't 'civilized' in l 955, it is not 'civilized' in 1981.
Persecution, assassination, murder, arson, tooting, kid-
napping and illegal executions will never be 'civilized'. A
century and a half of it is barbaric.
Accusation refuted!
The well-known and gifted French columnist, Eric
Rouleau, pointed out in his column in Le Monde that

REFUTATION
three of the most common accusations made against the
Baha'i community in Iran these days come under the
headings:
The Shah, the United States, and Israel
Under these three headings, persistent, baseless charges
have been deliberately repeated over and over, with
variations, in the media of both Europe and North
America, wherever representatives of the present regime
in Iran are on television and radio or in the press.
Therefore, I shall deal with them now, one at a time, as
promised earlier, and will expose these misrepresentations
and the fraudulent nature of these accusations once and
for all.
Let us deal first with Reza Shah.
ACCUSATION
The Baha'is supported the Pahlavi Shah's regime and were
favoured by his government.
One of the great ironies of the situation in Iran is the
way in which the basic Baha'i principle of loyalty and
obedience to whatever government is in power has been
traduced and used against the Baha'is. Because the
Baha'is did not oppose the Shah, therefore they supported
him! In fact, some of the worst pogroms they have
suffered took place under the Pahlavis. Successive
regimes made the same dishonest charges. For instance,
even now the opponents of Ayatollah Khomeini are
accusing the Baha'is of supporting him, just because they
do not engage in active opposition. This baseless charge is
often used in Iran today as a pretext to beat, harass, and
all too often kill the Baha'is.
THE TRUTH
From the time of its birth in 1844, under a succession of

A CRY FROM THE HEART
hostile regimes, the Baha'is received no legal recognition,
had no place to appeal against injustices, and suffered
from repeated pogroms. This did not change with
the appearance of the Pahlavi regime. The father of
M uh am mad Reza Shah came to power in 1921 through a
coup d'etat, although he was not recognized as Shah until
1925. Anti-government riots were not uncommon during
these years. The Baha'is were in no way involved but, as
has been the case throughout the history of these per-
secutions, they became the scapegoats.
The brief report which follows is but one leaf, from one
tree, from an entire forest of oppression suffered by the
Baha'i community in Iran under every regime in its turn.
This includes the regime of the late Shah.
We mention here only the most flagrant abuses, and
only a part of those. To tell the full story would require a
thick volume and neither of us has either the time or the
taste for that.
Violent attacks were made against the Baha'is in
Jahrum in 1926. Several were killed. Although the
authorities did not instigate these dreadful persecutions
directly, they did nothing to protect the Baha'is, nor did
they interfere with their persecutors and murderers. No
one was ever punished for any of the murders in J ahrum.
No one was even questioned.*
BAHA'i
WORLD
COMMUNITY
APPEALS TO
REZA SHAH PAHLAVI AGAINST THE PERSECU-
TION OF THE BAHA'iS
Your Majesty: Moved by the cruel persecutions being
inflicted upon the Baha'is of Persia, we address this
petition to [you as] the supreme authority of that land,
confident that when all the facts are assembled, the con-
* See The Babi and Baha'i Religions, 1844-1944, ed. by Moojan Momen
(George Ronald, Oxford, 1981), pp. 465-72, for an account of this
episode.

REFUTATION
ditions realized and the consequences understood, Your
Majesty will straightway initiate whatever measures are
necessary to terminate this long and frightful chapter of
unmerited woe.
This appeal, which appeared in the press in 1926, was
made on behalf of the Baha'i World Community to the
Shah, supreme head of the Pahlavi regime which the
Baha'is today are accused of supporting.
The king turned a deaf ear.
The appeal included these words:
On that day eight Baha'is were tortured and slain under
circumstances of unbelievable brutality ... In addition
to those murdered outright, many [other Baha'is] were
severely wounded, and some twenty houses overrun
and looted, or burned to the ground.
Among the atrocious acts committed in J ahrum, was
the slaughter of Baha'i women in the most shameful
manner, and the cutting into pieces of the body of a
Baha'i child ...
The refusal to help was an example of the 'favours'
which the Baha'is received from the Pahlavi regime from
beginning to end.
These bestial persecutions of the Baha'is were repeated
with varying degrees of intensity and ferocity during the
entire reigns of the two Pahlavi Shahs: 1925, 1930-32,
1934, 1939-40, 1941, 1943-50, and 1955.
In the years between 1943 and 1950, several Baha'i
Centres were confiscated. Some were destroyed.
Baha'is were imprisoned in Kashan and Sharud.
Baha'is were assassinated in different parts of the
country.
No attempt of any kind was made by the government
to apprehend the murderers. Somehow, the 'favours' of
the regime of Muhammad Reza Shah became 'mixed up',
and, whether intentional or unintentional, the 'favours'
went to the slaughterers, and not to the slain.

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
A massive, venomous campaign, unequalled in ferocity
and savagery, was launched against the Baha'is in Iran in
1955. As usual, it was the clergy who served as the
spearhead.
One of the leading priests publicly denounced the
Baha'i Faith as a 'false religion'. He preached daily in the
mosques. He was supported by the government of
Muhammad Reza Shah, for both the national and the
Army radio stations broadcast his vitriolic sermons
throughout the entire country, uninterruptedly day after
day. This leading mulla aroused the hatred of the
illiterate masses to a fever pitch of fury against the
Baha'is.
On April 21, 1955, the Army surrounded the Baha'i
National Centre in Teheran while Baha'i delegates from
all parts of the country were gathered for their Annual
Convention.
On May 7, the building was occupied by troops.
As a climax, in August high-ranking officers of the
Shah's Army and eminent dignitaries of the clergy arrived
with great ceremony. They were to have the honour of
administering the first pickaxe blows against the beautiful
dome of the Baha'i National Centre. Together, they
would participate in the demolition of that symbol of the
Baha'i Faith they all hated.
In those days of crisis of 1955, the Minister of the
Interior announced in the Iranian Parliament that the
Government of Muhammad Reza Shah had issued orders
for the suppression of the hated 'Baha'i Sect'.
This occasioned a fresh outburst of violence and
bloodshed. A wave of murders, rapes and robberies
against the Baha'i community took place across the entire
country. Baha'i women were violated. Baha'i girls were
abducted and forced into marriage with Muslims. Chil-
dren were expelled from their schools.
The House of the Bab, site of pilgrimage for the Baha'is

REFUTATION
of the world, was ruined. Its entire structure was severely
damaged. Its rooms were turned into rubble.
Baha'i cemeteries were desecrated. Graves were
op..!ned. The corpses of the Baha'i dead were disinterred,
mutilated and scattered in a country-wide display of
ghoulish depravity.
No one objected.
Except the Baha'is.
The Baha'i International Community mounted a vigor-
ous, world-wide campaign. tablegrams
and telegrams
poured in from all over the world to the Shah, his Prime
Minister and Parliament. Help was sought from the
United Nations, from the Presidents and heads of various
countries, and from leading humanitarian organizations
in all parts of the world.
Faced with the serious situation of an impending
nation-wide massacre of Baha'is, the Secretary-General
of the United Nations, Mr Dag Hammarskjold, sent his
representative to the head of the Iranian delegation to the
United Nations.
The increasing strength of the international opposition
being massed against Iran at length compelled the
Government of the Shah to listen. It brought to a halt
the outward persecutions. Gradually, reluctantly, most of
the confiscated Baha'i properties were returned.
On the part of Iran it was a cease-fire in the face of
world opinion. On the part of the Baha'is, it was another
temporary breathing-spell.
Despite the assurances given to the world by the
Government of the Shah, the Baha'is continued to be
the object of all kinds of behind-the-scenes abuses. The
persecutions now became clandestine. As far as the world
was concerned, outwardly all seemed to be well. Only the
Baha'is knew that the same old deprivation of human
rights was now being carried out surreptitiously, but just
as relentlessly. Everything was quiet, but unchanged.
This state of quiescence did not last long.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Soon Baha'i gatherings were disrupted by the Army.
Baha'i meetings were finally banned. Homes were
searched. Pressure was brought to bear on employers of
Baha'is to dismiss them.
The momentum in 1956 gradually but inexorably
moved toward another possible climax of terror. The
Baha'i International Community, fearing a renewed
outbreak of violent hostility, appealed once more to the
United Nations.
Dr Jose Vincent Trujillo, delegate of Ecuador and
President of the Economic and Social Council, brought
the case of the Baha'is to the attention of the Special
Commission for the Prevention of Discrimination and
Protection of Minorities.
The Commission was successful in putting an end to
these renewed, flagrant violations of the Charter of
Human Rights. After all, the Commission pointed out,
Iran was a signatory to that Charter.
The Government of Iran, as far as the persecution of
the Baha'is was concerned, in the face of the threat of
renewed world publicity, 'went underground' again.
But not very deep. And only temporarily.
The Shah's regime continued to practise, through the
clergy, as much oppression of the Baha'i community as
might escape the detection of world opinion, yet still let
the Baha'is know where they stood.
The Baha'is were deeply grateful to the Secretary-
General, Dag Hammarskjold, and to Dr Trujillo and the
Special Commission. They were, however, because of
nearly a hundred and fifty years of experience, dubious
about the lasting effects of any cessation of persecution
against them.
Their fears were well founded.
Baha'is are instructed by Baha'u'llah, the Founder of
their Faith, to remember that they must live among their
fellow men so that their whole life is a prayer. Their daily
work, whatever it may be, when carried out to the very

REFUTATION
best of their ability, and in service to their fellow men,
when performed with skill, trust and integrity, is the very
finest kind of prayer.
Everyone wants an employee like that, even enemies;
although in Iran, they may have to kill them later on, if
the clergy insist.
The head of National Airlines, Iran Air, and some in
other high administrative positions, were Baha'is. They
could be trusted and depended upon to put the welfare of
their country before their own. A rare, precious, and
almost vanished virtue.
Because of their integrity and honour, because of the
positions of trust which they have held, Baha'is have been
accused of being supporters of whatever regime it was
that employed them. But they were simply employees
who could be trusted to do their best for king and country
without ever compromising their own Baha'i principles.
The jobs they undertook were never political.
The trust and integrity of the Baha'i merchants is
clearly described in the book written by the United States
Supreme Court Justice, William 0. Douglas, West of the
Indus*. Douglas says:
The Baha'is have many businessmen among their
numbers. They enjoy a fine reputation as merchants.
The reason is that they maintain a high ethical standard
in all their dealings. Merchants in the bazaar are quick
to take advantage; they will cheat and palm off false or
inferior goods. Never the Baha'is. They are scrupulous
in their dealings; and as a result they grow in prestige.
No wonder the Baha'is were sought out as employees.
Whatever the positions of trust they might hold, they
would not do anything contrary to the welfare of the
Persian people or of the nation. Nor would they do
* Doubleday & Company, New York, 1958.

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
anything that would dishonour or degrade the holy name
of their Faith.
They would die first. Many have.
Under the rule of Muhammad Reza Shah another
attempt, from an entirely different angle, was made to
obliterate the Baha'i Faith from the land. This time, it was
done by a proposal to erase from the history books all
historical events involving the Faith and even any
mention of it. The Shah offered no opposition to this
plan, designed to make it appear as though the Baha'i
Faith had never existed in Iran. This silence was another
of his 'favours'.
Widespread and ruthless assaults on an innocent
people took place not only with the blessing of the clergy,
but with the open encouragement of the Shah's Govern-
ment. The philosophy had always been clear: Better that
the mobs should attack the Baha'is and enjoy some sport,
rather than revolt against a government in trouble. As one
local fanatic among the religious authorities said, quite
frankly:
'That's what Baha'is are for.'
Finally, we come to the photograph.
It tells better than any words exactly how much the
Baha'i community of Iran 'supported' the Shah and his
Army. It also demonstrates yet again the 'favours' which
that same Shah bestowed upon the Baha'is.
In 1955 when the news first arrived about the destruc-
tion of the beautiful dome of the Baha'i National Centre
in Teheran, the Baha'is were told that 'unruly' and
'uncontrollable' mobs were responsible for the first attack.
It soon became apparent that the Army had occupied
the Baha'i property on behalf of the Government and in
support of the fanatical clergy.
It is true that mobs, out of control, incited by the clergy,
were seizing, looting, and often burning Baha'i Centres
and homes in every part of the country that year. Day in
and day out, hour after hour, inflammatory sermons were

Destruction of the dome of the Baha'i National Centre, led by high-ranking Army officers,
Tehran, 1955

A CRY FROM THE HEART
being broadcast by the radio stations of Iran, arousing the
mobs against the Baha'is.
Unfortunately for the destroyers, photographs were
taken of their personal participation in the destruction of
the Baha'i National Centre in Teheran. They were proud
of what they were doing to the Baha'is. But in their
pleasure and gratification, they entirely overlooked world
opinion and how foolish they would appear as high-
ranking Generals taking a pickaxe to a sacred religious
building.
I was in Africa reading the stories about these
'uncontrollable' mobs. At the same time, I was also
holding in my hand the photograph which you have just
seen. Two of the 'uncontrollable mob' were wearing the
uniforms of Generals in the Army of Muhammad Reza
Shah. One was Chief of the General Staff, the other Chief
of Security.
What was this 'uncontrollable' mob of two doing?
They were taking turns, with a pickaxe, to destroy the
beautiful dome of the Baha'i National Centre on Shiraz
Avenue in the capital city. More than that. One can easily
see from the gleeful facial expressions exactly how sad
they felt about having to do such a dreadful thing.
But duty is duty.
Far from 'supporting' or collaborating with the regime
of the Shah, contrary to being 'favoured' by it, the Baha'i
community in Iran suffered constantly, continuously and
ruthlessly from both Pahlavi opposition and oppression,
as well as from silence and indifference to their many
appeals for justice.
Mark the charge: Refuted.
ACCUSATION
The Bahiz'is are agents of foreign powers.
'Roll the Drums! Sound the Trumpets! Tyrant Loose!'
In the accompanying illustration you can see a greatly

A CRY FROM THE HEART
reduced version, with partial English translation and
comments, of the large inflammatory poster which the
enemies of the Baha'i community in Iran have been
displaying throughout that country. You have already
heard most of the misrepresentations and false charges it
contains. The report you have just read on the regime of
the Shah has dealt with most of them.
The important thing to consider on this poster are the
copies of two letters concerning former Presidents of the
United States, General Dwight D. Eisenhower and
Lyndon B. Johnson.
The letters have been put before the people of Iran to
arouse them against the Baha'is. It gives the authorities
another chance to make the same fraudulent charge that
Baha'is are agents for a foreign power - in this case the
United States.
THE TRUTH
President Eisenhower was a friend of Iran; he came to
visit that country. The Baha'i community there, in
company with many more organizations, not Baha'i,
welcomed him in friendly fashion. The copy of their
courteous letter to the President was reproduced from the
American Baha'i News and is in the centre of the poster.
To the present regime, this letter is clear evidence of
'spies' at work. In truth, the Baha'i community in Iran
had far more reason than any other organization in that
land to write such a letter of welcome and thanks to
President Eisenhower.
What the poster also fails to tell you, is the story of the
many futile appeals for help which the Baha'i community
in Iran made in 1955 to Muhammad Reza Shah, to his
Government, and to the high-ranking members of the
clergy, any of whom were in a position to help. All
refused. Repeatedly.
Having failed to secure any help or protection from the
authorities, the Baha'i World Community (not the Baha'i

REFUTATION
community in Iran), as a last resort, launched an appeal
to the United Nations, to governments, and to men of
goodwill everywhere. President Eisenhower was among
them.
He was not alone.
The same appeal was lodged with the Secretary-
General of the United Nations, and with the President of
the Economic and Social Council. Copies of it were
delivered to the representatives of the member nations of
that Council, to the Director of the Human Rights
Commission, as well as to all non-governmental organiza-
tions with consultative status. Every avenue of assistance
was explored in the face of Iran's complete and icy
indifference. Gradually, the whole world became aware
of the terror that reigned in the streets of Iran in 1955.
Reports such as the following finally led to concerted
international action. Here are some excerpts from Press
reports:
Shops, farms and homes plundered throughout Iran.
Crops burned, livestock slaughtered, owners evicted.
Bodies in various cemeteries throughout the country
disinterred and viciously mutilated.
Children and adults beaten on the streets.
Children mobbed at school and expelled.
Young women abducted and compelled against both
their own and parents' wishes to marry Muslims.
Teen-aged girl shamelessly raped.
Eleven-month-old-baby deliberately trampled under
foot.
All Baha'is ordered to recant or be killed.
The reports became ever more alarming and violent. It
was the following tragic story which finally started the
wheels rolling in high places. People of the civilized world
were shocked, but were still reluctant to believe that in the
year 1955 these atrocities could be happening in a country
signatory to the United Nations Declaration on Human

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Rights. They changed their minds when the following
report came from Iran.
BRUTAL FAMILY MASSACRE
Emboldened by general applause and official approval
which accompanied recent killings of Baha'is, whole-
sale destruction of their property, mobs began to look
for victims in more remote areas.
Today a mob of many hundreds marched upon the
hamlet of Hurmuzak. To the ,beating of drums and the
sound of trumpets, armed with spades and axes, they
fell in a swarm upon a family of seven, oldest eighty,
youngest nineteen. In an orgy of unrestrained fanati-
cism, the mob literally hacked the entire family to
pieces.*
Almost every organization, and every individual who
arose to denounce the persecutions of 1955, voiced the
same words of shock, incredulity and disbelief.
Author and educator, Harry A. Overstreet, not a
Baha'i, declared: 'Many of us in the western world think
of the Baha'i Faith as one of the great contributions to the
culture and sanity of the world.'
The famous Oxford scholar, Gilbert Murray, wrote in a
letter to the Editor of the Manchester Guardian, August
22, 1955: 'A country such as Iran, whose Government
approved the Declaration on Human Rights, can ill-
afford to permit fanatics to attack with violence the
peaceful followers of a harmless and progressive religion.'
The Manchester Guardian in its August 13 issue of that
year carried this statement in a leading article: 'The
Persian Government will harm itself in the world's eyes if
it allows the persecution of the Baha'is to continue.'
Professor Pitirim A. Sorokin of Harvard University
• This episode is fully described in The Seven Martyrs of Hurmuzak,
by Mul:).ammad Labib, translated and with a Foreword by Moojan
Momen (George Ronald, Oxford, 1981).

REFUTATION
wrote a most helpful letter of protest to the Iranian
Embassy in Washington during those same horrendous
persecutions.
Such persecution of this highly spiritual and moral
religion appears to me to be entirely unjustifiable and
incomprehensible. I hope that the government of Iran
will have sufficient moral and religious responsibility
and just common sense to stop this sort of persecution. I
have no doubt that the impression which Iran is now
creating upon the rest of the world should be of some
concern to all those who are in a position to stop all
persecution upon those of the Baha'i Faith.
As you can see, the President was not alone.
None of these men of goodwill responded because they
were supporting the Baha'i Faith. They acted on behalf of
humanity because they were against genocide and perse-
cution in all its ugly forms.
Revolted by these same injustices, President Dwight D.
Eisenhower made a forceful and courageous request to
the Government of Muhammad Reza Shah to cease such
persecutions at once. The President considered it uncivi-
lized.
Fearing that massacres might follow in other parts, the
United Nations took immediate action with the represen-
tatives of Iran. Through the skill and diplomacy of its
Secretary-General and his aides, the waves of persecution
were brought to an end.
At least to the gaze of the outer world.
Peace in Iran was apparently restored.
Only the Baha'is knew that the persecution of their
community had gone underground. Temporarily. Until it
was wise and safe to surface again.
They knew it would be soon.
Who would believe that a nation such as Iran would
wish to face international scorn and scandal a second
time? Who would believe that in such a short time

A CRY FROM THE HEART
persecutions even more vicious than those of 1955 would
break out once again?
Only the Baha'is would believe it.
A new regime, a new reign of terror, another try at
extermination. It had never ended. Would it ever end?
Obviously each new regime in Iran believes it can do
better than the previous one. They pref er to make their
own mistakes. The present one seems not to care whether
the rest of the world is looking or not.
The Baha'is were not the only ones sceptical about the
sincerity and integrity of the present regime in Iran on
matters of human rights. When, at that regime's request,
the United Nations sent a Committee to investigate the
human rights record of the late Shah, the columnist, Jack
Anderson, made a few suggestions.
During his segment on the W ABC-TV programme,
'Good Morning America', Mr Anderson suggested that
the international investigators, while they were in Iran,
should also investigate the human rights abuses of the
present regime.
Savak, he pointed out, are gone, but 'a new secret
police, Savama, are operating with impunity. They arrest
political opponents just like Savak used to do. Phones are
tapped, letters are intercepted, persecution is rampant.
Little seems changed.'
Hundreds of people, he continued, who are thought to
be opponents of the head of the present regime are
ordered executed. Accused at the whim of, and 'convicted
by the Revolutionary Courts seeking revenge, not justice.'
Baha'is too, the broadcast pointed out, are living in
terror. They have been hounded and harassed. Their
religious shrines have been 'desecrated'.
Liberation, in its edition of December 8, 1980, referred
to the 'mischievous' and unjust actions of one of the most
highly-placed religious leaders of Iran. During a trial in
Mahabad, this high-ranking divine spotted a tradesman
he knew was a Baha'i. The Baha'i was one of the

REFUTATION
witnesses. The religious leader interrupted the trial. The
opportunity was too good to miss. He summoned the
Baha'i to his presence and told him that he must deny
his religion immediately.
The Baha'i refused.
He was ordered to pay a considerable sum of money, or
to deny his Faith. That was the choice. The divine,
renowned in judicial circles, judged the Baha'i on the
spot, and deemed him worthy of being shot to death for
his double refusal.
He would not deny his Faith, nor would he pay a bribe.
It was only the century-and-a-half-old game played all
over agam.
'Recant.'
'Never!'
'Free yourself by paying a ransom.'
'Never!'
On September 27, 1979, in the town of Mahabad, Mr
Bahar Vujdani paid the price of this injustice with his life.
Mr Vujdani is on my honour roll.
If you want to know the name of the legal assassin, it's
easy. You know the date and the city, look it up. Every
Baha'i in Iran knows it, and their fellow Baha'is now
know, all over the world.
The assassin is free. No one can touch him. He has a
high murder immunity. And talent for it.
Such an individual killer let loose upon the streets of
any big city of the world would be called psychotic. The
police of every major city would at once call for an APB,
All Points Broadcast: 'Killer loose. Armed. Dangerous.'
Unfortunately, in Iran, these are the police.
/ said that.
Now you know why the Baha'i community of Iran was
courteous enough, and grateful enough, to say 'Thank
you' and 'Welcome!' when President Eisenhower came to
their country.
How could you not be thankful to one who had helped

A CRY FROM THE HEART
you escape such horrible persecutions and death - even
temporarily.
You won't find this part of that story anywhere on that
fraudulent poster. But now you know why they hated the
President for helping their 'quarry' escape yet another
time.
The second letter referring to a President of the United
States is one from President Lyndon B. Johnson. The
authorities in Iran describe it as coming from the
'accursed White House'.
President Johnson is writing to the National Spiritual
Assembly of the Baha'is of the United States on behalf of
the entire Baha'i World Community. He is congratulating
them on the occasion of the one hundredth anniversary of
the proclamation of Baha'u'llah's Faith to the world with
its message of love and unity for all mankind. In the
President's own words:
'Yours has been a work oflove. You have sown seeds of
righteousness and justice, and humanity will reap rich
harvests from your toil.'
President Johnson, at the end of his letter, declares:
'All thoughtful and farsighted men respect the mission
of your faith.'
He then refers to Baha'u'llah's own words, saying that
'every one of us looks forward to that day when the earth
will truly be one country and mankind its citizens.'
All that is on the poster. Real 'spy' talk!
President Lyndon B. Johnson made the grave mistake
of saying that such purposes as world peace and world
unity were the purposes of men of goodwill everywhere,
including the United States of America.
Hence the present authorities in Iran, having vandal-
ized the Baha'i Centre, and stolen all the documents,
came upon this one. With their customary brilliant
analysis, they perverted the meaning of this letter to imply
that the Baha'is and the United States Government have
one and the same 'purpose': To destroy Iran!

REFUTATION
If all the Heads of State, Presidents, Prime Ministers,
Senators, Congressmen, leading figures in Parliaments,
Education and the Arts, who expressed the same 'congrat-
ulations' to the Baha'i Faith on that occasion, in countries
all over the world, were to be given a place on that poster,
it would be covered entirely to an even greater number of
levels than before.
Thus do love, friendship and fellowship swamp anger,
hatred and revenge, and in the end, to the maddening
frustration of the malevolent, will win out.
In reality, the poster should be covered with the
photographs of the humanitarians and goodwill ambassa-
dors of love and unity who helped the Baha'is during
those dark days, but since it was only President Dwight D.
Eisenhower and President Lyndon B. Johnson who made
it to the poster of hate, I off er the following suggestion:
The entire poster should be blank except for two large
photographs of President Eisenhower and President
Johnson, very large and in the centre.
Underneath their pictures, in huge letters, written on
behalf of men of goodwill everywhere, should be the
words:
'Bravo!'
Mark the charge: Refuted.
ACCUSATION
The Baha'is are 'spies' for Israel, and secretly collaborate
with international Zionism. They contribute financially to
the support of Israel which aids that country against its
Arab and Muslim neighbours.
The full story of the relationship of the Baha'i Faith to
Israel, and to Iran, Islam, and the peoples of the world, is
beautiful, dramatic and thrilling. But we shall deal only
with the false and baseless charges made against the
Baha'i Faith by the present regime in Iran. We shall

A CRY FROM THE HEART
demonstrate once again how utterly fraudulent and
absurd their charges are.
Had they received the proper counsel, they would
surely have been told: 'Don't make them. They will be
exploded, and you will look foolish in the eyes of the
world.'
So be it.
One of their baseless charges is that the Baha'i Faith
sends funds regularly to Israel to support the alliance
between the Baha'is and Zionism.
THE TRUTH
All money sent to the Baha'i World Centre by the
Baha'is of the world, including those in Iran, is contrib-
uted solely and exclusively for the upkeep of their Holy
Shrines and historic sites, and for the administration of
their Faith.
The followers of other religions likewise support their
own Holy Places and administrative offices situated in
Israel. This includes contributions offered by Muslims for
the upkeep and repairs of the Al-Aqsa Mosque in
Jerusalem.
Israel is a land of four world religions: Judaism,
Christianity, Islam and the Baha'i Faith. All have holy
places there.
Furthermore, it is a basic principle of the Baha'i Faith
that Baha'i institutions do not and cannot accept contribu-
tions from non-Baha'is, whether individuals, institutions
or governments.
Thus, the Baha'i World Centre, unlike Jewish, Chris-
tian and Muslim religious institutions in Israel which
apply for and receive government subsidies for the
upkeep of their religious endowments, does not accept, as
a matter of principle, any such subsidies from the
Government of Israel.
The Baha'i Faith maintains itself and its properties

REFUTATION
solely from the financial assistance it receives from the
members of the Baha'i Faith in all lands.
If the contributions made by poor and rich alike to the
upkeep of the Baha'i Faith are wrong, if the sacrifices
made by these dear souls for the religion they love are
improper, then the present regime in Iran should immedi-
ately stop all contributions made by Muslims to the
upkeep of their own Shrines and historical sites and
penalize severely such acts of Iranian treachery by their
own people, forbidding also such contributions by mem-
bers of the Jewish, Christian and Zoroastrian religions.
Of course, it's ridiculous.
What else?
ACCUSATION
The Baha'i Faith has its World Centre in Israel. This choice
shows that the Baha'is are supporters of international
Zionism, and are hostile to the Islamic nations and Arab
neighbours of Israel.
THE TRUTH
What the enemies of the Baha'i Faith in Iran totally
ignore is a simple fact of history which makes this
particular 'accusation' even more ridiculous than the
others.
Why is the Baha'i World Centre in Israel? And why are
its holy Shrines located in Israel?
The World Administrative Centre of the Baha'i Faith
was established in the Holy Land because of historical
events which occurred more than half a century before the
establishment of the State of Israel.
Baha'u'llah was sent as an exile and a prisoner to the
Holy Land. He had no choice of His destination. He was
banished there by a decree of Sultan Abdul-Aziz, the
ruler of the Islamic Ottoman Empire. The partner in His
harsh exile was the Government of Iran, the accuser.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
For the remainder of His life, Baha'u'llah was a
prisoner. He passed away near 'Akka in 1892 in what,
fifty-six years later, became the State of Israel.
Even more astonishing and absurd in the face of these
baseless charges is the fact that the prime mover in
Baha'u'llah's exiles, which terminated in the Holy Land,
was the Government of Iran, the predecessors of these
very authorities who today are now complaining because
the Baha'is are there.
Ironic, isn't it?
The 'accusation' that the Baha'i Faith is 'hostile' to any
nation is equally false.
The Baha'i Faith has no enmity for any nation, people,
or creed. It does not take sides in political controversies. It
does not side with one nation against another nation.
Such a practice or policy would be completely contrary to
the Baha'i principle of the oneness of mankind, and
would be directly opposed to its most fundamental
teachings.
For Baha'is, as promoters of genuine love for all
mankind, and as proclaimers of the oneness of humanity,
taking sides in such disputes would be diametrically
opposed to their most basic religious beliefs. Their basic
goals for the union of all the peoples of the world would
become a mockery. The purpose of the Baha'i Faith has
always been the peace, prosperity, security, and freedom
of every nation. Every country should develop its own
special qualities, talents, language and culture without
infringing on the rights and privileges of any other nation.
Imagine the ridiculous position in which this puts the
present authorities in Iran. They are prepared to de-
nounce, persecute and kill the Baha'is because they are
Zionists (false), who have taken sides with the enemies of
Islamic nations (false), and because the Baha'i World
Centre is in Israel, a fact which their predecessors made
inevitable by forcing Baha'u'llah along His route of
banishment from His native Iran. That exile led Him to

REFUTATION
the prison-city of 'Akka, and to the side of Mount
Carmel, the Vineyard of God, fulfilling prophecies from
all the holy Books of the past, including the sacred
writings of Islam.
That accusation is not only refuted, it was silly of them
to bring it up in the first place.
ACCUSATION
The Baha'is of Iran have been acting as 'spies' for Israel,
travelling back and forth carrying and bringing information
to be used against Iran.
THE TRUTH
Baha'is do travel to Israel, from all parts of the world,
including Iran. At least they did travel to Israel from Iran
before the present cruel restrictions against Iranian Baha'i
Pilgrimages were applied.
But there wasn't one 'spy' among them.
What the Baha'is of Iran were bringing to Israel from
their country were hearts full of love and prayers. They
returned to Iran with the same hearts overflowing with
joy and happiness. The experiences and lessons learned in
Israel at their holy Shrines inspired them and made them
more determined than ever to become finer human
beings, better persons.
They were on 'Pilgrimage' to the Holy Shrines of their
Faith.
If such a sin merits persecution and death, and should
be stopped, what a shock it is going to be to their own
people who make regular pilgrimages to Qum and
Mashhad and to Mecca and Medina.
Christians must cease going to Bethlehem and
Nazareth.
I think the point is painfully clear, the absurdity self-
evident, and the falseness of the charge childish.
In a land such as Iran, where Baha'is are deprived of

A CRY FROM THE HEART
legal and human rights, one cannot expect to be granted
spiritual rights, such as the joys of pilgrimage. In Iran, if
you are a Baha'i, you can expect that even such a
beautiful, sacred and holy thing as the pilgrimage will be
perverted. They will try in every way to spoil and
misrepresent it.
Now we come to the nub of it all.
ACCUSATION
The Baha'is are enemies of Islam and its Prophet Muham-
mad.
THE TRUTH
They are not.
Let it be stated clearly and without any 'buts' or 'ifs',
that the Baha'i Faith recognizes the Prophet Muhammad
as the Apostle of God and regards His book, the Koran,
as the Word of God. This is an article of faith to all
Baha'is, who, through the teachings of Baha'u'llah, have
learned to love and revere Muhammad and to recognize
with awe and wonder the great role which His religion,
Islam, has played in human history.
The actions of Muslims and Muslim governments
today are no better standard by which to judge Islam than
are the materialism and permissiveness and disorderliness
of Christian countries a standard by which to judge
Christianity.
Muhammad Himself said there should be 'no compul-
sion in religion'. (Koran 2:257)
The clergy and regime in Iran today, 1981, say: 'Recant
your religion and become Muslims, or die.'
The Baha'i teaching of the oneness of all religions is
given in chapter 13. You can see in one glance there, in
the two drawings, why a Baha'i could never be an enemy
of any one of them; it would mean being an enemy of

REFUTATION
Baha'u'llah and the Baha'i Faith, an enemy of all
religions, an enemy of God Himself.
ACCUSATION
Some leading political figures in Iran have been Baha'is,
including a Prime Minister.
THE TRUTH
None has ever been a Baha'i.
In 1965, Mr Abbas Hoveida became Prime Minister.
Immediately, his political opponents accused him of
being a Baha'i. It is a favourite device.
Politicians in Iran have used this 'ploy' whenever it
seemed useful. The Baha'is suffer because of it. That has
been one of the 'fringe benefits' for the enemy.
These accusations, charging the Baha'is with corrupt
political activities, and even declaring that they have
served in high political office, are still being deliberately
spread. They are, of course, false.
They do it for two reasons:
l. To discredit their political opponents who have been
prominent or might rise to a position of power. By
associating their names with the Baha'i Faith, they
hope to weaken this threat to their own prestige.
2. To incite further hatred against the Baha'is from the
fanatical sections of the population who fear it might
be true, and who dread having Baha'fs come into any
position of influence in the country. It is intolerable to
them.
It shows how little they know about or understand the
character of Baha'is and the integrity of their service to
their country. Although Baha'is do not participate in
party politics, it is true that whenever they serve in
administrative or non-political positions in governments,

A CRY FROM THE HEART
they acquire reputations for honesty, truthfulness and
trustworthiness. To be called a Baha'i administrator
would be considered a compliment almost anywhere but
in Iran.
The present regime in Iran is still repeating the same
old false charge that Mr Abbas Hoveida was a Baha'i. It is
done for the inflammatory purposes already mentioned.
This false allegation stems from the fact that his
grandfather was a Baha'i in the time of Baha'u'llah, and
his father was a member of the Baha'i Faith for some
time.
However, when the father accepted a political assign-
ment in the Foreign Ministry of Iran, he no longer
remained a member of the Baha'i community.
Mr Hoveida himself never became a Baha'i.
He, himself, repeatedly and emphatically asserted that
he was a Muslim.
In order to make certain that everybody knew he was
not a Baha'i, Mr Hoveida began, during his term of office,
to create many hardships and difficulties for the Baha'i
community in Iran.
During his regime, many Baha'i homes were burned
and looted. Many Baha'is were dismissed from their
administrative posts in government simply because they
were Baha'is.
This is the true story behind these false accusations that
leading figures in the political government of Iran have
been Baha'is.
These are baseless charges, like all the others.
Another Minister, Mansur Rawhani, whose father was
a Baha'i and whose mother was a Muslim, has been
described by his political enemies as a Baha'i.
He was not. He had never been a Baha'i.
ACCUSATION
The Baha'is of Iran are quite different from those in other
lands. In Iran they are politically oriented.

REFUTATION
THE TRUTH
Whenever you hear the name of a Baha'i mentioned as
part of the political process in Iran, or anywhere else, be
sure the statement is false.
Absolutely and categorically.
Should a Baha'i ever wish to take part in political
ventures, and proceed to carry out that desire, he would
be immediately removed from the Baha'i community.
Mark the Charge: Refuted.
ACCUSATION
Baha'is have been members of the dreaded secret police of
Muhammad Reza Shah, the notorious Savak. A Baha'i was
at one time head of this organization, and Baha'is were
members of other departments.
THE TRUTH
This accusation, like that concerning the Prime Minister,
is completely false. Its purpose is the same, to try to
discredit the Baha'i Faith internationally in the eyes of
the world and, locally, to inflame and enrage the people
of Iran against the Baha'is.
In September 1978, during the present four-year-long
wave of persecution, Savak, the Shah's special police,
organized a powerful anti-Baha'i movement in Shiraz, the
birthplace of the Herald of the Baha'i Faith, the Bab, and
the city in which the Baha'i Faith began.
The purpose of this sudden violent attack by Savak was
to discredit publicly the revolutionary clergy by laying the
blame on them, but the mullas learned of their intention
and on this occasion intervened on behalf of the Baha'is.
Over three hundred Baha'i homes were burned to get
Savak's campaign of terror and extermination off to a
good start. No one knew at the outset where these attacks

A CRY FROM THE HEART
would lead, how violently they would develop, or how
widespread and sinister they would become.
There is no way to link the Baha'i Faith to that dreaded
organization, Savak.
As in the case of the ex-Prime Minister, Mr Hoveida,
the accusation that the late head of Savak, General
N asiri, as well as some other officials, such as Parviz
Sabeti, were Baha'is, is utterly false. They have never
been Baha'is, although other members of their families
may have been.
It is a basic principle of the Baha'i religion that the gift
of faith springs from the free choice of the individual. The
Baha'i Faith cannot _be automatically and blindly inher-
ited from an earlier generation.
I off er you these words from the writings of the Baha'i
Faith. They are for Baha'is everywhere in the entire
world, including Iran:
Beware! Beware! Lest ye offend any heart!
Beware! Beware! Lest ye hurt any soul!
Beware! Beware! Lest ye deal unkindly toward any
person!
Beware! Beware! Lest ye be the cause of hopelessness to
any creature!
Should a Baha'i become the cause of grief to any
human heart, or of despondency to any soul on earth, it
were better for him or her to hide in the lowest depths of
the earth than to walk upon the surface of the planet.
So much for Savak.
Mark the charge: Refuted!

Yazd
Some six hundred kilometres south of the capital of Iran
is a city of nearly one hundred and fifty thousand
inhabitants. It has a record of murder and savage
persecution of Baha'is, extending over more than a
hundred years. But there is something special about that
record. Three times there have been 'seven martyrs of
Yazd', in 1891, in 1955, and now again in 1980.
I shall always remember my own introduction to Yazd.
I was in Africa. It was the summer of 1955 when that
first fateful cablegram reached me late in the day of July
28.
FAMILY OF SEVEN, OLDEST EIGHTY AND
YOUNGEST NINETEEN, WERE SET UPON BY
MOB OF TWO THOUSAND STRONG, WHICH,
ACCOMPANIED BY MUSIC OF DRUMS AND
TRUMPETS, HACKED THEM TO PIECES WITH
SPADES AND AXES.
This was the first time I had heard the name Yazd. I
was to hear it many times, and to know it very well in the
years ahead.
I left my work in Africa and came out to help def end
my fellow Baha'is in Iran that summer. I was assisting in
preparing a world-wide protest, a document called: Baha'i
Appeal for Religious Freedom in Iran.
Again it is summer. September 8, 1980.
Exactly a quarter of a century later!

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Once more I am in Africa. There is another cablegram.
About Yazd!
SEVEN BAHA'IS, MEMBERS OF LOCAL SPIRI-
TUAL
ASSEMBLY, TWO AUXILIARY
BOARD
MEMBERS SHOT TO DEATH TODAY AT DAWN.
I came out of Africa the second time to help def end my
fell ow Baha'is, who were once again being persecuted and
killed.
There was no need for my help this time. The Baha'is in
Iran were being ably and eloquently defended by the
institutions of the Baha'i Faith in every part of the world,
and especially by the Baha'i International Community at
the United Nations.
This left me free to launch my own one-man campaign,
my Cry from the Heart. Unofficial, personal, also world-
wide.
I had visited the city of Yazd myself in July, 1970. It
was the fifteenth anniversary of the month in which they
had so brutally slaughtered seven of my Baha'i friends. I
wanted to see with my own eyes the scenes of their
heroism.
As I walked those quiet streets in Yazd, I had to keep
telling myself: 'It didn't happen in an arena in ancient
Rome. My friends were not slaughtered in medieval
Europe. They were killed right here. Only fifteen years
ago. Right here, only a few miles from where I am
standing now.' (Seep. 42.)
Could it all have happened only fifteen years ago?
I soon knew that it could indeed.
Within an hour of my arrival, the Baha'is were
informed by the police that unless I left the city
immediately, there would be very severe consequences for
them. Especially for the members of their Local Spiritual
Assembly.
I knew only too well what those consequences might
be. Twice before the entire Local Spiritual Assembly had

YAZD
been imprisoned. Once for three long years. One member
had died in that prison. I knew the consequences could be
far worse than imprisonment.
I returned from the Baha'i Centre to my hotel, and
made plans to leave the city early the next morning. At
dawn I was ready to leave, but not before my dear Baha'i
friends had made it possible for me to see the sites of those
past atrocities.
I stood in a small garden-like square, charmed by the
birds singing in the nearby trees. I wondered if the famous
bulbul, the Persian nightingale, sang its song of love and
beauty here in the late evening. I photographed the
archway leading to the site where once the enemies had
gathered to decide the fate of those Baha'is who
stubbornly refused to recant their Faith.
In case you still think I am exaggerating, come back
with me nearly a hundred years. We shall not make these
journeys back into Baha'i history often, but in the case of
Yazd, it will help us to understand the present terrors in
Iran.
Close your eyes. You are with me here on the streets of
Y azd. It is May 19, 1891. Together we are moving quietly
among the crowd, watching our fellow Baha'is who have
been arrested and condemned to death.
Because they refuse to say, 'I am not a Baha'i.'
It's all part of the game.
There are seven victims.
Naturally, it is Yazd.
May 19, 1891, was a day of great reJmcmg for the
enemies of the Baha'i Faith in Yazd. Dancers and
musicians with their trumpets, drums and tambourines
attended the party in numbers. They joyfully played and
danced around the seven victims as those poor souls were
herded from site to site along their scene of martyrdom on
the streets.
The tragedy began when Jalalu'd-Dawlih, the Prince-
Governor, returned in a happy frame of mind from his

A CRY FROM THE HEART
hunt. The Prince invited the seven Baha'is who were the
intended victims to what he called a friendly little
intimate gathering. Before their arrival, he arranged for
members of the clergy to hide behind a curtain. The
Prince sought their help in condemning the Baha'is to
death. He wanted to share the responsibility - just in case.
It would be so much more satisfying and pleasing if he
could trap them into saying they were Baha'is - condemn-
ing themselves from their own lips.
How delicious!
Since they refused to say they were not followers of this
religion, let them say they were, and die for it. This idea
pleased him very much.
He pretended to befriend the seven victims. He feigned
a very sympathetic manner.
'I am eager to know all about your Faith,' he told them.
'Prove to me that it is true. I may adopt it.'
The victims were silent at first. They suspected what
was in his heart.
The Prince reassured them. 'You can safely speak out
here. We are alone. No one will hear you but God and
your Prince.'
The seven victims were aware of his evil purpose; they
were not at all deceived by his ready smile. Still, they were
always willing to offer proof of the truth of their Faith.
Who knew what miracle might happen?
The Prince was delighted. He encouraged each one of
them to confess, individually. Their words, with the clergy
listening behind the curtain, were a certain death-
warrant. There need be no delays in the public execu-
tions.
The Prince gave each one of the seven a gold coin as a
reward, and dismissed them with a wave of his hand. The
gold coins were taken away from them as soon as they left
the room. They were seized, imprisoned, and prepared for
death.

YAZD
The Prince was delighted with the success of his
stratagem.
The priests came out from behind the curtain at his
bidding and eagerly and enthusiastically signed and
sealed the death-warrants. They praised the Prince for his
clever ruse, and congratulated each other. The fun was
about to begin.
Nothing was more appreciated in Yazd than a first-
class Baha'i festival of death.
Early on the morning of May 19, 1891, by order of the
Prince, trumpets, drums and tambourines were sounded
to call the people together so that the merriment could
begin. The prisoners whom the Prince had entrapped by
his lies were already standing before him. He was willing,
he said, to extend his mercy to the victims.
'You are young,' he said to the most youthful, who was
twenty-seven. 'Do not be foolish. Recant your faith.
Otherwise I shall be obliged to kill you.'
The young man replied coolly, 'I have offered my life
in the path of God. Whoever wants it, let him come and
take it.'
The Prince was angered by the answer. Immediately he
called for a rope. He personally put it around the young
man's neck. The executioner pulled on one end and the
servants of the Prince jerked on the other. The boy was
strangled to death amidst the applause of the onlookers. It
was a mild beginning, but there were still six victims to go.
From the site of that first martyrdom, the parade of death
began.
Each place on the streets of Yazd where the victims
were halted became honoured as the site of another
slaughter. One of the seven was chosen to die at each
separate site.
The crowd became infuriated when the prisoners
would not beg for mercy or display fear. Especially when
they contemptuously refused the demands of the mob to
recant and curse their Faith.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Instead, the victims competed with each other for the
honour of being the first to die. The anger and frustration
of the mob turned into shrill cries of delight and pleasure
as they beheld the second of the victims struck down
before them.
This was more like it!
Slowly the parade went on to the next site. Another
victim provided the entertainment. Y azd was not to be
denied the full pleasure of its ghastly f es ti val.
The mob refused to be satisfied. They hated the
serenity of the victims, who continued to show no sign of
fright, but instead fearlessly spoke to the crowd. They
shared with them words from the teachings of their Faith.
They offered forgiveness to their persecutors for all their
cruel acts.
This only intensified the hatred and fury of the crowd.
The mob began to cry out for more barbarous methods of
killing the victims. Something hideous enough to terrify
them.
A Dutch merchant, an eyewitness of this 189 l atrocity,
reported via the Dutch Charge d' Aff aires, that the seven
'were executed quite unexpectedly. One was hung
[strangled] in the presence of the Prince and six others
were killed in different quarters of the town.' This
eyewitness reported that all seven 'died like real martyrs
without any fear and without saying anything but good
about their religion.'
The mob insulted the remains of each fallen victim
after his death in such a vicious and horrifying manner as
could only degrade themselves and their city of Y azd.
Another account of these atrocities, by Captain
Vaughan of the 7th Bengal Infantry, who passed through
Y azd shortly after the event, points out that the martyrs'
'mangled remains were cut in pieces and exhibited to the
victims' wives and children. I heard that the men who
suffered showed great fortitude, and, though told that

YAZD
they had only to say ... that their prophet was false, and
their lives would be spared, scorned to do so.'
The crowds resorted to such gruesome and inhuman
ways of trying to force words of fear and recantation from
their victims, that I cannot bear to describe them for you.
They are available for you to read if you have the heart.*
I cannot bear to write about them here on these pages,
they are so horrendous.
All seven heroic victims were finally slain on that long-
ago day in 1891, and at last, the merry-making ended.
The music stopped; the dancing ceased. The festival of
death was over!
There were no more victims.
It had been quite a day.
Even for Y azd.
The remains of the seven martyrs were thrown into a
pit in the desert on the edge of the city. A favourite
burying-place for Baha'is.
A holiday was declared by the Governor, the Prince,
whose treachery had started it all. Shops were closed by
his order.
'It is a time for rejoicing, not business,' he announced.
The sun eventually went down on May 19, 1891.
On Tuesday morning, the Prince ordered that the
illumination of the city, planned for Tuesday night,
should be stopped, and warned that anyone who men-
tioned the killing of the seven would have his tongue cut
out.
The world was becoming aware of the terrible thing
that had happened in Y azd, and a curtain of silence was
being drawn over the whole episode. Too late.
The British Charge d' Affaires told the Shah that he
would 'deeply regret if, at any time, anything should be
* See God Passes By, by Shoghi Effendi, pp. 201-2 (Baha'i Publishing
Trust, Wilmette, Illinois, 1970); and The Babi and Baha'i Religions,
1844-1944, ed. by Moojan Momen, chap. 20.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
done which may injure the reputation of the Persian
Government.'
Y azd was a specialist in doing just that.
These events of May 19, 1891 have been described as
'one of the most barbarous acts ever perpetrated in
modern times.'
You can open your eyes now.
It is time for us to go home as well, and leave Yazd. We
no longer need dwell on either May 19, 1891, or July 28,
1955.
We can forget the past, for it has happened all over
again.
Now. In our time. September 8, 1980!
Can you believe it? Same city, Yazd. Same crime. Same
number of martyrs - seven.
Once again I am in Africa. I am holding in my hand
another cablegram. About Yazd.
This time it is a headline taken from the Y azd
Television announcement:
SEPTEMBER 8, 1980. YAZD, IRAN -
SEVEN
BAHA'I SPIES SHOT TO DEATH TODAY AT
DAWN.
Among the Seven Martyrs of Yazd, September 8, 1980,
was 'Azizu'llah Dhabiq.iyan.
He was a member of the Baha'i Auxiliary Board. He
was arrested in Shiraz, that city where the Baha'i Faith
was born, and where the friends had already suffered
severely from the current persecutions. Members of the
Local Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz and members of the
Auxiliary Board had been arrested, summarily tried, and
executed. 'Azizu'llah Dhabiq.iyan had gone to Shiraz to
console and comfort the survivors.
I was an Auxiliary Board member myself for many
years, and although I may not have been the greatest, I do
know that an Auxiliary Board member's whole life is
consecrated to visiting the Baha'is, to encouraging them,

YAZD
and helping them to live better lives of service to all men,
and to become more useful members of their own
communities, examples for friends and neighbours alike.
Today in Iran they are being hunted down, like
'Azizu'llah Dhabil}iyan in Shiraz, and they are being
killed. As they killed him.
'Azizu'llah Dhabil}iyan, my friend, was fifty-six. He
was one of the seven to die at dawn in that small garden
outside Yazd. He was tied to a tree with his six
companions and shot to death.
'Azizu'llah was quite accustomed to being tied to a tree
and shot at. His captors in Shiraz gave him many
rehearsals for death on the way back to Yazd. They
would stop the car frequently and amidst much ribald
laughter, they would pull 'Azizu'llah roughly out of the
car, push him toward a nearby tree and tie him to it. They
told 'Azizu'llah that it was too much trouble to take him
all the way back to Yazd. They were going to execute him
now. Right here.
'Azizu'llah could, of course, prevent his death by
denying that he was a Baha'i. He could beg for mercy.
They always gave the Baha'is that choice. Otherwise, they
said, 'Azizu'llah would die immediately.
When 'Azizu'llah refused, they fired their guns at his
head, deliberately missing. Several times on the way they
repeated their little game, and their fake execution, telling
'Azizu'llah that this time it was for real. Still they could
not make him waver or recant.
Their abuse became more violent and spiteful each
time they failed. They continued to fire the bullets around
his body, coming as close as possible.
They tired of their sport, threw 'Azizu'llah into the car,
and drove him directly to the death-prison of Yazd where
he joined his companions.
The next time 'Azizu'llah Dhabil}iyan would be tied to
a tree, it would be at dawn. In Y azd. He would be shot

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
to death with his six Baha'i companions, each one of
whom had displayed the same heroism and courage.
I would like you to meet one of these fearsome
criminals, these spies for Israel. His name is 'Abdu'l-
Vahhab Ka~imi. He is from Manshad village quite near
to Yazd.
He is so old, that his age was estimated between eighty-
five and ninety. So stooped was he, that when he walked,
his fingers almost touched the ground.
Everyone could see what a "threat to the nation' this
'spy for Israel' was!
When on the morning of September 8, 1980, it was
rumoured that six Baha'is were to be shot to death, the
rumour was immediately denounced by the Baha'is as a
lie.
'It is never six Baha'is that die in Y AZD. It is seven, or
none!'
'Abdu'l-Vahhab Ka~imi Manshadi was on his way to
Y azd under arrest. He didn't know it, but he was to be the
seventh.
He hadn't made it easy for the authorities. They would
be glad when they were done with this frail but fierce old
man. He knew the words of the Koran so well, that he was
known as a 'walking Koran', and corrected his persecu-
tors at the trial when they made a wrong quotation from
that Holy Book to try and prove the faithlessness of the
Baha'i prisoners to Islam.
A few months before, his home in Manshad had been
raided. Naturally, he was a Baha'i. It was expected in
such times of trouble. His Baha'i books were confiscated.
His storeroom was set on fire. His only recourse was
prayer. They interrupted his prayers by kicking him to the
ground, and beating him so badly that his wife, who
witnessed this bestial assault, died of shock a few days
later.
Everyone knew there was worse to come. It was
beginning to happen everywhere. His friends and family

YAZD
entreated the old man to leave Manshad at once for his
own safety. He refused.
'I will not leave my trench,' he said. 'I will stay and
defend it.'
A second time they raided 'Abdu'l-Vahhab's home.
This time, after beating him, they threw him into the
official car that was to bring him to Yazd. But he was so
old and crippled, and wounded from his beatings, that it
hardly seemed worth the efforts of the Revolutionary
Guards to carry him all the way to Yazd. They debated
whether they should toss him into the road, run the car
over him a few times, and have done with it.
Instead, they decided to push the old man out of the car
into the midst of the desert. It was night-time, and they
were confident that with his wounds and his weak state he
would surely perish.
'Too much time is being wasted on one old man,' they
declared.
He was not just one old man. He was the seventh.
'Abdu'l-Vahhab was an old man with a defiant spirit.
He refused to die just for the convenience of the
Revolutionary Guards. Slowly and painfully he raised
himself up and set out for home. A passing car took pity
on his bent figure and brought him back to a village
fourteen kilometres from Manshad. Through the hills and
the desert, on foot, the old man painfully took the short
cut home.
When he was seen there the next day, alive, and
working about his home, the bullies were outraged. What
did they have to do to kill one weak old man?
They seized him again. This time, they said, they would
end it. They took him directly to Y azd and threw him into
prison.
When 'Abdu'l-Vahhab's friends heard that he was
condemned to death, they shook their heads in wonder.
'How,' they said, 'will they shoot this poor old man?'
'He is too bent over to be executed by a firing-squad.'

A CRY FROM THE HEART
They were wrong.
They shot the old man three times in the abdomen.
When he fell, they shot him in the head.
His crime: He was a Baha'i.
Thus, 'Abdu'l-Vahhab Ka'.?imi Manshadijoined his six
fellow Baha'is and became the seventh martyr.
He died at dawn with the others.
The old man was in love with all the Messengers of
God, and all the holy Books. Especially did he love the
eloquent words of Muhammad whom he was falsely
accused of betraying.

The House of the Bab
The beautiful room you will see on the next page was the
site where the Baha'i Faith was born. From that single
lamp, the Light of the Faith of the Bab and Baha'u'llah
has covered the face of the earth; from one believer in that
room, on that historic night in 1844, there are now Baha'is
in more than one hundred thousand centres in almost
every part of the planet.
That room was in the House of the Bab in the heart of
the city of Shiraz, a city which, in the last four years, has
suffered a storm of terror, destruction and murder.
A single lamp marked the spot where the Bab sat when
He spoke those first soul-stirring, electrifying words to
Mulla I:Iusayn, the first to believe in Him, on that long-
ago wondrous night. The Bab declared that it was the
dawn of a New Day in the fortunes of mankind. He was
the Herald of an even greater Figure yet to come. He was
the Dawn, the One to follow soon after Him would be the
Sun.
They were to usher in that wondrous Day of God
foretold in all the Holy Scriptures, a time of peace,
prosperity and happiness for all mankind.
The room is gone now. The House is gone. The
outward body has been destroyed. But the inward soul of
that much-loved structure lives on today in the hearts of
millions of Baha'is. Millions more tomorrow.
I sat in that room, and read from The Dawn-Breakers,

Upper chamber of the House of the Bab in Shiraz where
He announced His Mission to Mulla I:Iusayn

THE HOUSE OF THE BAB
an historical account of that moment, on that night so
long ago.
The words of Mulla I:Iusayn were as fresh as on the day
he wrote them.
This Revelation, so suddenly and impetuously thrust
upon me, came as a thunderbolt which, for a time,
seemed to have benumbed my faculties. I was blinded
by its dazzling splendour and overwhelmed by its
crushing force. Excitement, joy, awe, and wonder
stirred the depths of my soul. Predominant among
these emotions was a sense of gladness and strength
which seemed to have transfigured me. How feeble and
impotent, how dejected and timid, I had felt previous-
ly! ... Now, however, the knowledge of His Revelation
had galvanized my being. I felt possessed of such
courage and power that were the world, all its peoples
and its potentates, to rise against me, I would, alone
and undaunted, withstand their onslaught ... I seemed
to be the Voice of Gabriel personified, calling unto all
mankind: 'Awake, for, lo! the morning Light has
broken. Arise, for His Cause is made manifest. The
portal of His grace is open wide; enter therein, 0
peoples of the world! For He Who is your promised
One is come!'*
With closed eyes as I sat there across from that lamp,
that scene of inexpressible splendour was unveiled before
me. Like Mulla I:Iusayn, I, too, nearly one hundred and
forty years later, was enraptured by that unique experi-
ence. Like Mulla I:Iusayn, I, too, was lost in the wonder
and joy of my successful quest for my Beloved.
I had found the Bab and Baha'u'llah in far-off Salt
Lake City, Utah, in North America. Yet here I was in
Shiraz!
Hearts, from the two polar seas, from the Mediterra-
* From Nabil-i-A'~am, The Dawn-Breakers (Baha'i Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, lllinois, 1932), p. 65.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
nean, and the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans, have
been drawn, as Mulla I:Iusayn was drawn, to that Holy
House, as steel-filings are drawn to a magnet.
That Holy House belonged to mankind, not Iran.
Perhaps now it is easier to understand why one of the
most poignant and saddest news stories for the Baha'is of
the world was the report of the desecration and destruc-
tion of this precious House of the Bab. The tragic news
reached them that this holy place of pilgrimage had first
been vandalized, then tom down, and finally completely
levelled to the ground. The ruins were eventually swept
away by a bulldozer.
The news rejoiced the religious authorities in Iran as
much as it saddened the Baha'is. The Bab Himself had
suffered at the hands of the clergy and people of this city.
His followers had been persecuted here from the earliest
days. In like manner, this noble House more than once
had, in its tum, been forced to bear the wounds of the
destroyers. On the first occasion, 1942-43, it was attacked
and a fire was started, after which it was restored to its
original design. The second time was in 1955 during the
reign of Muhammad Reza Shah, whom the Baha'is are
accused of supporting, when it was vandalized and looted,
its walls, doors and windows reduced to rubble. It was
again restored.
'Uncontrollable mobs' were blamed then for demolish-
ing this structure. Those same false statements have been
repeated again by the present regime in Iran, during the
current wave of persecutions in Shiraz.
Crowds of people over whom they had no control, the
authorities said, were responsible for assaulting the House
of the Bab. The authorities themselves, of course, were
blameless.
Eyewitnesses have told quite a different story. For three
days they watched the mobs, instigated and encouraged
by the fanatical clergy of Shiraz, pursue their vicious
attack on this Baha'i Holy Place.

THE HOUSE OF THE BAB
There are motion pictures to verify this fact.
Soon looters had stripped that Holy House to a bare
skeleton. The room where the Bab met Mulla I:Iusayn was
totally dismantled. The doors and windows of the lower
story were removed. The entire structure was defaced.
At that point the destruction stopped temporarily. The
Government stepped in and announced that Baha'i
properties throughout the entire country had been seized
by the authorities in order to ,protect them. This protec-
tion included all Baha'i Holy Places.
It soon became clear that the Bab's House had been
seized, not to protect it, as the authorities had announced,
but that the old secret plan to destroy the House
completely, step by step, might go forward unhindered.
What is, and will, in time, be recognized to be one of
the holiest sites in the religious history of mankind, fell
into the demonic grasp of the mullas of Shiraz, and was,
for the time being, doomed.
There is on file with the Baha'is an Order from the
Revolutionary Guards of the Province of Fars, of which
Shiraz is the capital, dated April 13, 1979, and presented
to the Custodian of the House of the Bab. This Order
certifies that the holy House of the Bab had been seized
and occupied 'In Trust' by the Government so they might
protect it from being destroyed.
It turned out to be entrusting the sheep to the wolf.
The authorities knew from the beginning what the plan
was. The depths of their debasement and complete lack of
integrity were further demonstrated when it was learned
that plans had been developing long before the destruc-
tion took place, in order to give them time to raise enough
money not only to destroy the House, but to obliterate the
site.
They planned, even at that early date, to build roads
and a square which would ultimately erase all signs of
what had once stood on that sacred spot.
All this was conceived and organized long before the

Destruction of the House of the Bab,
Shiraz, 1979

THE HOUSE OF THE BAB
'unruly' mobs and 'uncontrollable' crowds under the
careful direction of the clergy, and on their behalf, took
the first threatening and deadly steps against that much-
loved holy Place.
The sum of one hundred million tumans* was allocated
for the project. There were dissenting voices. The Mayor
and the Chief of the Central Economic Council of
Teheran both said that money should be spent to build
and not to demolish.
Both these men were dismissed from their jobs and
transferred. Their replacements were chosen for their
antagonism to the Baha'i Faith. They were thus ideally
suited to this work of betraying promises and breaking
oaths.
Forty million tumans were approved almost at the
start. The Governor of Shiraz also offered a share of the
budget.
Please note: They received no money from the 'unruly'
mobs and 'uncontrollable' crowds.
Their written oath that they had seized the Bab's Holy
House to hold it 'in trust' has been broken.
It is often necessary, they said, to take devious actions
against such people as the Baha'is who are enemies of
Islam. So they broke their 'oath' and betrayed their 'trust'.
Apparently not one of these noble supporters of Islam
in the Islamic Revolution can read Arabic.
No one in this regime, either religious or civil, a regime
led by a clergy that boasts its knowledge of thousands and
thousands of memorized passages from the Koran and the
sacred traditions, was apparently even the least bit
familiar with the words of their own Prophet, Muham-
mad: from the Koran.
The Baha'is know them, and keep them.
Not, however, the present regime in Iran.
Muhammad says plainly:
* about ten million dollars

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
Fulfil the covenant of God when ye have entered into
it, and break not your oaths after ye have confirmed
them. Indeed ye have made God your surety; for God
knoweth all ye do. (Koran 16:93)
Ask yourself, which is the friend? And which the
enemy of Islam? In Shiraz.
The Orange Tree
The Baha'is of Iran, indignant at this senseless destruction
of a Holy Place belonging to the largest religious minority
in the land, sent telegrams and letters of protest to the
Head of the Government.
These messages were of no avail.
The Baha'i World Community made an even more
urgent appeal.
Its cablegrams were likewise ignored.
The clergy had launched their plan of death for this
Holy House; they would allow nothing to interfere with
their obliteration of it. If they could not successfully
exterminate the entire Baha'i community in Iran, as
rapidly as they wished, they could at least totally remove
all trace of that hated place where the Baha'i Faith had
been born.
As a special insult, they cut down the orange tree which
the Bab had planted with His own hands in the courtyard
of that lovely House. They sliced the tree trunk in two,
burned both halves, and threw the remnants in the trash.
Many Baha'i pilgrims have eaten fruit from that orange
tree. When they made their pilgrimage to that holy
House, they would take tea in the garden. Now, the
enemies had gone out of their way to destroy spitefully
and maliciously that symbol of love and fellowship. I
myself have sat in that lovely, cool, tree-shaded garden,
and enjoyed hearing stories about the Bab and His family
from the caretaker, a descendant of the Bab.
I also had tea, and an orange from that tree. One of my

The orange tree planted by the Bab in the courtyard of His
House in Shiraz

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
sweetest memories of Iran is to recall those happy hours
spent in the House of the Bab on my two separate visits to
Shiraz.
Now there is nothing but an empty space.
Still, I can see the House as clearly as ever. It will
always be like that with every Baha'i who has been
blessed by visiting that wondrous Site.
I can't help but wonder at the foolishness of such
enemies. Don't they know that they really haven't cut
down that orange tree at all?
I, personally, have at least seven friends in North
America who right now are eating oranges from the trees
they have grown from the seeds of that orange tree
planted by the Bab in Shiraz. There are hundreds more.
Pilgrims from everywhere have taken home oranges and
planted seeds from that tree.
Don't the authorities in Iran know that tomorrow, if
access to Iran were permitted, black, yellow, red, brown
and white Baha'is could fly in from all over the world,
and plant a whole row of orange trees all round the city of
Shiraz? From the trees grown from the seeds of the tree
they thought they had cut down.
That is the real symbol.
Everything which the present regime in Iran thinks
they have destroyed is alive! It thrives and prospers on
their savage brutality. Don't they realize yet that, in the
end, they will be completely frustrated and defeated?
Don't they know that because of these wicked and
senseless actions, right now, the world over, thousands of
additional orange trees are being planted from the drying
seeds of that 'House-of-the-Bab' orange tree?
The increased and carefully nurtured planting began
the moment the news of the destruction of that orange
tree was received.
The battle is on!
Each Baha'i orange tree in every part of the world, fully
grown and tender shoot alike, is waiting to have the

THE HOUSE OF THE BAB
honour of being the first to replace the orange tree those
foolish enemies thought they had cut down.
And that day will surely come.
Whatever the enemies of the Baha'i Faith do, in any
part of that land of Iran, to attack and obliterate God's
new Message, is ultimately fruitless. They are transient,
the Faith of the Bab and Baha'u'llah is eternal. Its roots
are planted deep down in the friendly soil of human
hearts the world over. The Baha'i Faith is the Cause of
God, not of man. Therein lies the difference.
The fanatical clergy in Iran have lost the beautiful
spirit of Muhammad, and are rootless and lifeless in their
graves of error, exactly as the Apostle of God Himself
foretold they would be. They will eventually see the
bankruptcy of all their nefarious schemes, and the poison
of their own hatred will in the end consume them.
I didn't say that. Sacred Scriptures said it. Including
their own.
It is a retelling in our day of the eternal story of the
triumph which every world religion has won over its most
bitter enemies.
It is always the Cause of God against the cause of man.
Therefore, the end is obvious.
Three times the enemies of the Baha'i Faith have tried
to destroy this Holy House of the Bab. Each time their
attempts have been more violent and the results more
devastating. Following each attempt, there has been a far
greater number of new Baha'is in more and more
countries of the world to protest. Now, the indignation is
world-wide. Their crime has now become a world crime
bringing shame to Shiraz from over one hundred thou-
sand centres where their vandalism is deplored and
denounced. Not only among Baha'is, among mankind.
This very international crime may be the one which in
the end will bring about their downfall.
The Hand of God is over the hand of man.'
The House of the Bab is gone.

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
A street and an open square now occupy the site where
once stood that much-loved, sacred and beautiful House.
The street is empty. But the breezes of God still blow
across it, carrying its fragrance to the nostrils of His loved
ones.
Don't they know that in the days to come, that
beautiful House will stand once again exactly as it stood
in the days when the blessed Bab walked the streets of His
native city?
Don't they know that every stone, every door, every
window, every single part of that precious Holy House is
not only engraved forever in the minds of its lovers, but
even more significantly, has been photographed both in
black-and-white and in colour?
There are detailed architects' drawings, blue prints,
floor plans and all the building and construction informa-
tion necessary to restore that Holy House exactly as it was
before.
This information is preserved and protected in several
places around the planet.
It is safe from the hands of the enemy.
Twice already that House has been restored. It will be
restored a third time.
When, is not important. The fact is inevitable.
This Holy House can never be destroyed, for the Hand
of God is over the hand of man.
It will be a place of Pilgrimage in ages to come for
millions of people.
That House will stand exactly as it was, exactly where it
stood, in every detail, with all its simplicity and beauty.
'So it is written and so it shall be.'
Baha'u'llah Himself has addressed one of the Ministers
of Nasiri'd-Din Shah, concerning their futile attempts to
obliterate His Faith:
Dost thou believe thou hast the power to frustrate His
Will, to hinder Him from executing His judgement, or
to deter Him from exercising His sovereignty? Preten-

THE HOUSE OF THE BAB
dest thou that aught in the heavens or in the earth can
resist His Faith? No, by Him Who is the Eternal Truth!
Nothing whatsoever in the whole of creation can thwart
His Purpose.
The words which the Bab spoke on that historic night
so long ago, in that Holy House on the eve of the birth of
the Baha'i Faith, attest the eternal truth of this statement.
This night, this very hour will, in the days to come, be
celebrated as one of the greatest and most significant of
all festivals.
It has been, and is, every year.
Those wondrous words heralding the coming of the
'Christ-promised Kingdom of God on Earth' will be
spoken again in that same room, on that same Site, on
that same day, and the enemies who tried to erase God's
religion from the face of Shiraz will be forgotten and no
man will remember them.
The children's-children of those 'unruly mobs' so
deceitfully duped by the clergy, will join in those days
their fellow Baha'is in pilgrimage to that Holy House, and
no one will ever think that there was a time when they did
not love each other.
That is the power of the love of God and His
Messengers.
'So it is written, and so it shall be.'

Terrible Teheran
The newspaper Kayhan of Teheran, in one of its recent
issues, told the world why the Baha'is were being killed.
The reason?
For the crime of treason to
the Muslim nation of Iran.
It added that the Baha'is were not only a 'danger' to the
nation, but to the Islamic Revolution, and to every
Muslim in the country.
I want you to meet one of these 'dangerous' Baha'i
criminals who threaten the city of Teheran and its
peoples. His name is J:lakim. Professor Manuchihr
J:lakim. The people of Teheran, both Baha'i and Muslim,
and every other religion, know him best as 'Doctor
J:lakim'.
He was shot to death in his clinic on January 12, 1981.
A few months before his death, Dr J:lakim was in
Europe, in France, where he is honoured and revered. His
family and friends warned him not to return to Iran.
'It is very dangerous for you.'
'You will be killed this time.'
But in spite of their warnings and entreaties, Dr J:lakim
would not listen.
'It is my duty to return to Teheran,' he said.
Not only because the Baha'i community there needed

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
him in their time of terrible trouble, but because he was a
doctor. All his patients needed him. Even those who were
Muslim, Christian, Zoroastrian - whatever their religion.
He was their doctor. They depended upon him. They
trusted him. He must be faithful to that trust.
It was the Baha'i way, stronger even than the Hippocra-
tic oath. Besides, Teheran was his home town. He was
born there. He loved Teheran.
'No,' Dr Hakim said, 'I must return to Teheran.' And
he went back, despite his kn'owledge of the danger to his
life.
One afternoon shortly after his return, he was closing
his clinic. His last patient had left. It had been a long and
busy day. There were many sick.
He was alone in the clinic.
Suddenly, unexpectedly, a different kind of patient
entered: unidentified gunmen. They shot him to death
and left. His nurse found him later, lying in a pool of
blood.
The authorities made no effort whatsoever to identify
or bring to justice his assailants. No one came forward to
identify them. People had seen strangers leaving, but who
they were, they could not or would not say.
The authorities disclaimed any responsibility. It was,
they said, quite obviously the work of a terrorist group,
undoubtedly one which was antagonistic to the Baha'i
Faith. Dr I:Iakim had unfortunately been caught in the
web.
Antagonistic is a mild word for shot down in cold blood.
Dr I:Iakim had been the object of repeated threats
against his life for some time. He ignored them and went
on with his work. The authorities repeatedly denied that
they were involved in any way with these threats, but it
was the authorities who interrogated him, not some
unknown terrorist group. He was ordered to surrender the
list of the names of Baha'i physicians throughout Iran.
He refused.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
From that time on, until the day of his death, Dr
I:Iakim received frequent anonymous threats against his
life, and many obscene phone calls about his religion. The
authorities knew it was hopeless to say to such a
courageous and dedicated man:
'Recant your faith. Deny you are a Baha'i, or we will
kill you.'
Dr I:Iakim made it unmistakably clear to the authorities
that on the subject of his belief in Baha'u'llah and in the
Baha'i Faith, he would stand as steadfast as the Alburz
Mountains north of the city.
In replying to the complaints from the Baha'i commu-
nity concerning Dr I:Iakim's cruel and brutal assassi-
nation, the authorities in Teheran repeated their earlier
denials. The murderer was completely unknown to them.
They themselves were puzzled by this unexpected killing,
they said. They disclaimed any involvement. They told the
Baha'is that undoubtedly it was the work of Fada'iyan-i-
Islam, the militant terrorist group already described.
However, a few days after the assassination, officials
went to his house to make, they said, an official inventory.
They sealed the house. The next day about twenty
Revolutionary Guards entered and removed everything.
They took Dr I:Iakim's car from the garage, and left the
house and premises stripped bare.
The Baha'i Hospital in Teheran, which Dr I:Iakim had
helped to establish, had, some months before, been
occupied. All Baha'i personnel were dismissed. Docu-
ments, records, personal papers were confiscated. Even
the old people were evicted from the Home for the Aged
associated with the hospital. They had no place· to go.
Many of them had no families. No money. Nothing.
The authorities had already confiscated the Baha'i
Company that took care of their small pensions and
supported them. When the old people lost Dr I:Iakim,
they lost all, including a loving father and a kind son.
The most 'antagonistic' group of 'terrorists', up to this

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
point in our story, has always been those authorized by
the present regime; so there was little hope that the
criminals who had committed this foul crime against a
much-loved doctor would ever be apprehended.
Their plans for the elimination of the Baha'i commu-
nity in Iran had taken an important step forward.
Another prominent Baha'i had been struck down. Others
would soon follow.
The pattern of death in Iran is clear. Those who are
executed have their properties confiscated.
Dr I:Iakim who was perhaps too popular to be 'tried'
was, instead, assassinated. The fact that a few days after
his murder his house and belongings were totally confis-
cated, shows all too clearly, in spite of their denials, the
complicity of those in authority.
Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim, humanitarian, loved by thou-
sands, Baha'is and non-Baha'is alike, was on their death-
list
Yes, I knew him. Very well indeed. He was one of my
doctors during my visits to Iran. I met him first in the very
clinic where they shot him down. I can see his office quite
plainly. I can look down and visualize the spot where he
lay, a sacrifice to his humanitarian services.
And that is not my assessment of him; it is the
consensus of his peers, the doctors the world over who
knew, loved and respected him.
I met Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim later when I was treated in
the Baha'i Hospital which he had helped found. The
nurses and patients said it was like sunshine coming into
their rooms when Dr I:Iakim entered. He made each
patient feel that he or she was the only patient under his
care.
I know.
He made me feel that way.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
It is very easy for me to tell you about this man, so
'dangerous' to the city ofTeheran and its people. Nothing
could give me more pleasure.
Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim was a native of Teheran. Born
there. Died there. One of the great ones. Even his
enemies, in the days to come, will honour his name. Many
in Iran do already. Cautiously.
Dr I:Iakim was born in 1911, the son of a notable
physician, and thus had a splendid start upon his
illustrious medical career. He took his degree at the
Medical College in Paris, then won the agregation for
professorial rank in the Universities of France. He was
renowned for his researches in anatomy, his discoveries
being twice cited in Le Rouvier, the standard work on
anatomy. His writings have become part of the textbooks
used in many medical colleges.
Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim returned to Iran in 1938 where
he established a Chair of Anatomy at the University of
Teheran. His books are still being used as texts in that
field.
He was also a well-known specialist in gastroenter-
ology.
Dr I:Iakim was Director of the Baha'i Hospital in
Teheran ever since its inception. He served in this
capacity for thirty years. He also founded the Baha'i
Home for the Aged, associated with the hospital. This
home accepted people of all religious and racial back-
grounds.
Dr I:Iakim was decorated by the French Government
with the Legion d'honneur in 1976 for his humanitarian
services to mankind.
Ask yourself, Who was the loser?
The authorities in Iran made it evident that they were
pleased by his death, but what about the poor and the sick
from among their own people? What about the suffering
who had received help, comfort, kindness and generosity
from this great man? Many of these so-called 'enemies'

Dr Manuchihr I;Iakim, assassinated in Teheran,
January 12, 1981

A CRY FROM THE HEART
cried when they heard the sad news of his death. They
sent messages of condolence. They loved Dr I:Iakim.
The Government of France had decorated him because
he was a humanitarian. The authorities in Iran killed him
because he was a Baha'i.
For over a quarter of a century, Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim
was a member, and several times Chairman, of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Iran.
That is why he was killed.
When the news of his murder was flashed around the
world, bringing Teheran into the murder spotlight yet
another time, one of the television commentators de-
scribed that capital city as 'Terroran'.
He was right.
The Baha'is of Teheran were determined to show the
regime in Iran, and the whole world, what they thought of
this great human being, Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim.
The authorities warned the Baha'is not to make a big
public display of their feelings on the occasion of his
funeral. The smaller the funeral, they said, the better it
would be for all concerned. Especially the Baha'is.
It should be taken as a threat.
The number of Baha'is who had earlier turned out in
defiance of the present regime to demonstrate their love
for the fallen victims in Shiraz, Tabriz, and Y azd had
caused considerable worry and annoyance to the authori-
ties. The Baha'i participation was always orderly, peace-
ful and non-violent, but they refused to let their heroes go
to their graves without a proper tribute to their honour,
their courage, and their greatness.
The authorities didn't want these expressions of love
repeated in Teheran on a larger scale. They would provide
the escort for the body, they said. All the way. There had
better be no trouble. They made it very clear to the

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
Baha'is that it might become extremely dangerous for
those who dared to participate this time. The Baha'is
would regret any foolish actions. Or there might be
additional funerals for the Baha'i community to worry
about.
This, however, was Dr Mamichihr I:Iakim they were
talking about, and the Baha'is were determined to honour
his life of service. What happened to any of them was of
little consequence. They woivd show their respect for this
great man, this wonderful servant of the Baha'i Faith,
come what may. The authorities could do as they pleased.
If necessary, they were prepared to die en masse on the
way to that hero's grave.
It all began quite quietly.
A few courageous and devoted Baha'i youth went to
the Coroner's office to claim the body of their dear friend
and father. They had been told to be very wise and very
careful. Brave they were already.
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Teheran was in
charge of the funeral. They had planned it carefully and
beautifully, so that it might live up to the spirit of the
Baha'i teachings on death.
Baha'u'llah had written:
I have made death a messenger of joy to thee.
Wherefore dost thou grieve?
Death is not the ending, but the beginning of life. The
perfume bottle is broken, and the fragrance gone some-
where else.
The Baha'is knew that wherever Dr I:Iakim had gone,
he had been welcomed with open arms. His fellow Baha'is
were determined that he should have a beautiful and
joyous send-off from this world which he had served so
long and so faithfully.
His body was transported to the cemetery in an
ambulance. No one had ever seen an ambulance like that
ambulance before. It was literally covered with flowers

A CRY FROM THE HEART
from one end to the other. There were floral wreaths of
every shape and colour. A coat of glory and beauty for Dr
I:Iakim's final journey.
The flowers were not anonymous. Every Baha'i Local
Spiritual Assembly in Iran wished to be identified with
the good doctor. It did not matter what the authorities
might say or do, or how upset they might be by this show
of solidarity. This was Dr I:Iakim's hour and no one could
take it from him.
Cablegrams of praise and sympathy were pouring in
from all parts of the world.
Anyone standing on the streets of Teheran could
plainly read the names printed on those magnificent
wreaths of beautiful flowers. They came from every city
where his fellow Baha'is had been shot to death, from the
relatives of those already fallen companions who would
be waiting to greet and congratulate him on his own
marvellous ending.
It was a proud company in which Dr I:Iakim was
making his last journey through the streets of his native
city.
The floral wreaths cried out their message of love and
defiance:
The National Spiritual Assembly of the Baha'is of Iran
(his Assembly for so many years)
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Shiraz (where the Bab
had been born)
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Tabriz (where He had
been martyred)
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Teheran (where
Baha'u'llah had been born, stoned, and imprisoned)
The floral wreaths by their very names told the story of
the suffering of the entire Baha'i community in Iran.
They all showed their love and disregard of danger:

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
Yazd
H amadan
Abadan
Mashhad
Abidih
Kirman
Isfahan
Kirmanshah
Kara}
On and on they went. Some fifty Baha'i centres were
represented on that flower-laden ambulance as it made its
fragrant way slowly through the city of Teheran toward
the cemetery.
Baha'is had not gathered in large numbers at the
starting-place. Instead, they joined the procession a few at
a time as it made its journey toward its final destination.
Revolutionary Guards, guns at the ready, walked
beside the ambulance all the way, guarding it, watching
the streets. They were prepared for any trouble that might
come. Any unexpected violent demonstration by the
Baha'is of Teheran would be dealt with. Wherever so
many people gather it means trouble, the Revolutionary
Guards believed.
They never learn about the Baha'is, do they?
The only demonstration was one of love. Lips moving
in silent prayer. But it was overwhelming. When that
garden of flowers, the ambulance, finally arrived at the
cemetery, there were four thousand Baha'is in attendance.
The Local Spiritual Assembly of Teheran had arranged
for beautiful prayers and readings to be heard through the
loudspeakers. The speakers had been installed in the most
lovely surroundings of the Teheran cemetery. The area
was thronged with Baha'i faces.
Radiant. Proud. Unafraid.
Every Baha'i had been thrilled and inspired by seeing
the National Spiritual Assembly members leading the
procession, and the Local Spiritual Assembly of Teheran
in line behind them, all disregarding their own personal
safety, unafraid of any dire consequences which might
follow.
That courageous demonstration had a great impact on
every Baha'i present. They all arose spontaneously to
follow that brave leadership.

The Funeral of Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
In the middle of the ceremony, an urgent telephone call
came from the Security Office. The Baha'is were in-
formed that at the cemetery three bombs had bt;en
planted in the area! If the cemetery were not evacuated
immediately, the authorities said, they would not be
responsible for the consequences. Masses could be killed.
It would be better, they insisted, if the Baha'is would
immediately disperse and leave the cemetery. The funeral
of Dr I:Iakim could go on very well without them. The
cemetery authorities would 'see that he was buried.
This information was broadcast over the loudspeakers.
It was received in stony silence.
No Baha'i moved.
Instead, the funeral ceremony of Dr l:lakim continued
serenely as though it had never been interrupted, and no
announcement and threat ever made.
After the closing prayer, when the body of Dr l:lakim
was being carried to its final resting-place, the Baha'is
began to chant more prayers. In unison. A few at first.
Softly, then slowly growing in volume. Soon the entire
four thousand had joined in. It sounded as though they
were storming the gates of heaven for Dr I:Iakim.
They made the countryside echo with the majesty of
their prayer. It seemed as though they were sounding the
call as far as Tabriz and Yazd and Shiraz where their
other loved ones had fallen, in order to comfort the
relatives of those dear souls too.
People some distance from the entrance to the cemetery
turned around to listen.
As the Baha'is walked toward the vault where Dr
I:Iakim's remains would be placed, they chanted the battle
cry which had been raised by the heroes of Fort Tabarsi. *
The words called upon God to help and fortify them and
strengthen their hearts against the enemy. Like the battle-
* The scene of an heroic episode during the ministry of the Bab
(1844-50).

A CRY FROM THE HEART
cry 'Ya Sa!J,ibu'z-Zaman!' - 'O Lord of the Age!' - in
praise of the Bab, their chant rang out with fervour and
devotion, thrilling every heart.
Before they left their dear friend for the last time, that
huge crowd once more began chanting in unison. It was a
prayer for the protection of the entire Baha'i community
of Iran. It was a prayer given to them by the Bab for just
such times of difficulties and distress as they were now
facing everywhere in that unhappy land.
Is there any Remover of difficulties save God? Say:
Praised be God! He is God! All are His servants and all
abide by His bidding!
Baha'is the world over were praying with them on that
day. Many were undoubtedly reciting that very same
prayer, unaware of the thrilling things that were happen-
ing in that far-off cemetery.
One would have thought by looking at those Baha'is
with their radiant smiles, their closed ranks of unity,
that they had been on a picnic, a time of joy and
happiness. And in a way, it had been. They had fulfilled
Baha'u'llah's words to the very end: 'I have made death a
messenger of joy to thee. Wherefore dost thou grieve?'
Most important of all, Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim had been
given one of the greatest gifts of all, a 'good ending': both
as a martyr for his Faith and with a loving farewell from
his friends everywhere.
As I read those reports from Teheran about that
dramatic occasion with its ambulance, flowers, marching
Baha'is, threat of bombs, their serene indifference to
danger, the chorus of four thousand voices chanting
together, it was hard to believe that it was a reality, and
not a fantasy. It was like watching a motion picture, a
cloak-and-dagger adventure story, with a tremendous
victorious finish with virtue and God triumphant. I
remembered my own visit to that Teheran cemetery to

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
pay tribute to the early heroes of the Faith. I thought to
myself:
'Wouldn't it be wonderful, if we could all be present at
a confrontation in the next world between Dr I:Iakim and
the authorities who ordered his death? Imagine! If they
had all been buried on that same day, and had made the
trip together to the next world. What an exciting
"confrontation" that would be.'
Where?
Before Muhammad, of course, the Founder of Islam.
They excuse all their crimes and atrocities against the
Baha'is because they are enemies of Islam. Wouldn't it be
rewarding to know how Muhammad feels about it?
Wouldn't it be rewarding to see all of them together
before Him, face to face. And let the Apostle of God,
Himself, hear both sides of the story, then choose between
them.
Who was the servant, and who was the enemy oflslam?
In Teheran on that tragic Monday.
As a sportscaster, I'd lay the odds at 'one-to-nine-on'
that the 'antagonistic' group of 'terrorists' would get the
short end of the stick, and leave dishonoured and m
disgrace.
My money would be on Dr Manuchihr I:Iakim.
Except that Baha'is don't gamble.
Pity!
It would have been a 'sure thing'!
Another cablegram!
This time about Teheran.
They had executed three Baha'is on the twenty-second
of June, and four more on the twenty-third.
1981!
I have not typed out the cablegram for you this time.
Both of us must be weary by now of that song of death.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
To the growing list of fatalities, all victims of 'Terrible
Teheran', must now be added seven more innocent
servants of humanity: peace-loving, law-abiding, non-
violent - like an inescapable refrain it is heard again and
again, running through our story with the melody of
death.
The story of each one of these heroes of God should be
told in detail. And will be some day.
Yes, believe it or not, I did know them. Some of them
very closely. They are part of my Baha'i family. I am
suffering along with their own relatives.
The memories were flowing so strongly that at home in
Canada after that phone call, I put up my portable movie
screen, and looked again at the beautiful coloured slides I
had taken in Teheran of those places and people so dear
to my heart. My memories were mingled with joy and
sadness. Joy at the victories, sadness at the terrible
suffering now being inflicted on my fellow Baha'is.
I had taken coloured slides and photographs of our
Conferences and consultations together in that very city,
Teheran, where they now lay dead. Counsellor, Auxiliary
Board member, outstanding servants of the Faith of
Baha'u'llah.
I flashed on the screen the coloured slide of the lovely
face of Counsellor Dr Masi!}. Farhangi, a sweet and
darling soul, a true lover of his fellow men, a close
personal friend. I would now add his name to the list of
the crimes of 'Terrible Teheran'.
I turned the projector off and the screen was empty.
Like my heart. Something precious had vanished.
They are all dear, all loved, and all missed. They died,
shot to death, while I was writing this book.
Dr Masi!}. Farhangi
Mr Hashim Farnush
Mr Buzurg 'Alaviyan
Mr Farhang Mavaddat

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
Mr Badi'u'llah Farid
Mr Y adu'llah Pustchi
Mr Varqa Tibyaniyan
The names of these new victims have been listed for
you not only to show that the systematic killings are still
going on, but also to point out once again that these
Baha'i murders are not, as is so often inferred in the press,
part of the general executions taking place in Iran during
the current Islamic Revolution.
That, of course, is exactly the impression the present
regime is trying to convey. They are hoping that the
obliteration of the entire Baha'i community in Iran can be
accomplished without being noticed in the midst of all the
current confusion.
These murders are not part of anything. How many
times I have said that! They are a separate, carefully
conceived, cunningly executed, systematic, deadly plan to
exterminate the Baha'i community in Iran behind the
smoke-screen of the Islamic Revolution.
Repeat:
It may be a Revolution, but it certainly is not Islamic.
These unjust murders are completely against everything
Muhammad taught.
The Baha'is are not unfortunate victims caught acci-
dentally in the web of historical circumstances.
They are intended victims of genocide!
• Deliberate. Planned. Unrelenting.
It is time to say farewell to 'Terrible Teheran'.
The religious leaders in Iran, who should be the most
God-fearing, honoured, respected, charitable, kindly and
considerate of all men, are instead, through their terror-
ists, the betrayer, the executioner, the axe and the
headman's block all rolled into one.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
They, alone, must accept the full world-wide responsi-
bility and shame for the innocent Baha'i blood they have
shed.
Never before have they had such a perfect opportunity
to accomplish their one-hundred-and-fifty-year-old goal.
Up until now, their greatest opportunity was in 1852 when
they were able to gain the full support and assistance of the
civil government under Nasiri'd-Din Shah.
That almost perfect attempt at genocide failed.
They are trying again today.
Conditions look more favourable now.
If the safety and lives of my friends in Iran were not at
stake, I would skip the ferocity and horror of those days
back in 1852. But I have no other choice.
This is the persecution, the 'grand butchery' described
by the renowned French author, Ernest Renan, as 'a day
without parallel, perhaps, in the history of the world'.
You have a right to know about it.
This brief glimpse into the past will also prove to you,
once and for all, that I was telling you the truth when I
said that these terrorists now deployed in Iran, are
torturemongers from the Stone Age.
They were then; they are now.
I believe you will also agree that my language, as I
suggested in the beginning, was not too strong, but was in
reality, mild and moderate.
I leave it to you.
We have chosen to share with you at this point an
account not written by the Baha'is, but written by an
Austrian soldier and published in Soldatenfreund (The
Soldier's Friend) on that terrible occasion nearly one
hundred and fifty years ago.
Fasten your seat-belts for a flight to hell and beyond!
On August 29, 1852, Captain Alfred von Gumoens, an

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
Austrian officer in the service ofNasiri'd-Din Shah, wrote
a letter to a friend. He was so 'disgusted and horrified at
the cruelties he was compelled to witness that he sent in
his resignation'.
You can read the entire letter for yourself in the files of
Oesterreichischer Soldatenfreund in the reference libraries
of Austria, or in The Dawn-Breakers, pp. 605-6, which
any Baha'i in your town will be happy to share with you.*
Both you and I will be eqµally as disgusted as Captain
von Gumoens; so I have shortened his account of those
horrors for the sake of us all.
[Teheran, August 29, 1852}
... But follow me, my friend, you who lay claim to a
heart and European ethics, follow me to the unhappy
ones who, with gouged-out eyes, ... whose teeth are
tom out with inhuman violence by the hand of the
executioner; or whose bare skulls are simply crushed by
blows from a hammer; or where the bazaar is illumi-
nated with unhappy victims, because on right and left
the people dig deep holes in their breasts and shoulders
and insert burning wicks [of candles] in the wounds. I
saw some dragged in chains through the bazaar,
preceded by a military band ...
They will skin the soles of [their] feet, soak the
wounds in boiling oil, shoe the foot like the hoof of a
horse, and compel the victim to run ... Give him the
coup de grace! Put him out of his pain! No! The
executioner swings the whip, and- I myself have had to
witness it -
the unhappy victim of hundred-fold
tortures runs! ... As for the end itself, they hang the
scorched and perforated bodies by their hands and feet
to a tree head-downwards, and now every Persian may
try his marksmanship to his heart's content ... I saw
corpses tom by nearly 150 bullets ...
When I read over again what I have written I am
* The complete letter can also be found in The Btibi and Baha'i
Religions, 1844-1944, pp. 132-4 (see p. 30 for details).

A CRY FROM THE HEART
overcome by the thought that those who are with you in
our dearly beloved Austria may doubt the full truth of
the picture, and accuse me of exaggeration. Would to
God that I had not lived to see it. But by the duties of
my profession I was unhappily often, only too often, a
witness of these abominations. At present I never leave
my house, in order not to meet with fresh scenes of
horror. After their death the [victims] are hacked in two
and either nailed to the city gate, or cast out into the
plain as food for the dogs and jackals ...
Since my whole soul revolts against such infamy,
against such abominations ... I will no longer maintain
my connection with the scene of such crimes.
Captain von Gumoens goes on to say that he has
already asked for his discharge, but has not yet received
an answer.
We can summarize that day in 1852, 'without paral-
lel ... in the history of the world', and be finished with it,
by briefly quoting one more historical document of those
events.
'Those arrested were distributed among the various
classes of people, whose messengers would visit the
dungeon each day and claim their victims.'
It was the Prime Minister's idea. He feared that he
alone might be blamed for these inhuman atrocities.
Therefore, in order to distribute the responsibility, he
conceived the extraordinary idea of distributing these
poor, helpless souls among the various classes of people,
each having its own victim.
They were divided as equally and fairly as possible
among the Clergy, Ministers of State, the Army, the
Doctors of Law, the chief servants of the Court, the
people of the town, merchants, tradesmen and artisans.
One example from the endless parade of horrendous
killings will be more than enough.
The Minister of Foreign Affairs, 'full of religious and
moral zeal, took the first shot'. He was given one of the

TERRIBLE
TEHERAN
IOI
more illustrious victims, as befitted his position in the
Government,
and the secretaries of his department
finished the victim off, and then cut him to pieces before
returning to their offices to get on with the day's work.
All this information is from an article published in the
Teheran Gazette.
And still they would not say:
'I am not a Baha'i.'
They were Baha'is.
Once Baha'u'llah had touched their hearts, they would
always be Baha'is. To be a follower ofBaha'u'llah is more
precious than life itself. Because it is life itself. Everything
else is ashes.
Captain von Gumoens left 'Terrible Teheran' shortly
after. Forever. Can you really blame him?

Ramadan
'Can it really be Ramadan?'
It had been a peaceful day. No cablegrams, no
telephone calls. I sighed a breath of relief, and prepared
for bed. I had put in a long day typing disasters and
calamities. The quiet was restful.
There was a loud knock upon my door! A messenger
from Toronto. Delivering another telex cablegram. This
one dated June 14, 1981. Yesterday!
Another seven dead.
The cable was from Ramadan, Iran.
Ramadan!
One of my favourite places in all that land. Ecbatana of
the Greeks. The great philosopher and physician, Avi-
cenna is buried there. As is the poet Baba Tahir, grandson
of Omar Khayyam. Alexander the Great once captured
the city. Herodotus wrote about it. Darius I, and
Artaxerxes II, raised up royal structures there.
I mention all these things about Ramadan, merely to
put off facing the words of my cablegram.
SEVEN BAHA'IS ALL MEMBERS OF THE LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY OF HAMADAN WERE TORTURED
AND KILLED
TODAY JUNE 14, 1981
The tortures they endured were discovered as their
bodies were being prepared for burial. I must now add to
my list of lost loved ones and friends:

HAMADAN
Mr I:Jusayn Mu~laq
Shot nine times by the executioner
Mr Suhayl I:Jabibi
Shoulder broken. Shot
Mr Suhrab Habibi
Back burnei Branded. Shot five times
Dr Nasir Vafa'i
Thighs.cut open as far '1S his waist. Shot twice
Dr Finiz Na'imi
Back broken. Shot seven times
Mr I:Jusayn Khandil
Fingers crushed. Back burned. Branded. Shot
Mr Tara~u'llah Khuzayn
Chest and left hand smashed. Shot seven times
Hamadan, a city of history of the past, is now a city of
murder in the present.
As I sit here at my typewriter in the safety and peace of
Canada, my heart is restless. I find it hard to sleep at
night. I keep thinking of those dear faces in Hamadan.
I am watching two graceful Canadian geese, back from
the south for the summer, gliding smoothly along the
surface of the blue pond below my window. I am
surrounded by green fields, meadows of flowers, and dark
pines. The smell of jasmine floats through the open
window. I can hear the soothing sound of the swift-
flowing waters of the Ganaraska River spilling over th~
mill-race and dam below. But no matter how I try to
endure the unendurable, every few minutes my heart goes
back to the land of nightingales and blue tile fountains,
Iran.
And to Hamadan!
How I would like to share the tranquillity and beauty
of my gardener's cottage with the dear families of the

A CRY FROM THE HEART
survivors in Ramadan in their hour of anguish and
suffering.
The cablegram tells me how my Baha'i friends were
arrested, imprisoned, interrogated - all illegally. How
they were offered their freedom if they would recant, and
how they refused. As an inducement, they were tortured.
They still refused.
They were killed with the sanction, approval and
blessing of the local authorities, as well as the approval of
the highest Revolutionary Court in the land.
There was only one slight annoyance for the enemies.
The members of the hated Local Spiritual Assembly of
Ramadan stood fast to the very end. The cruel tortures
inflicted on them only stiffened their resolve.
I remember Ramadan, and the dear sweet people I met
there. I spoke to several hundred Baha'is in their beautiful
Centre. I met with the Local Spiritual Assembly for a
wonderful lunch and dinner. Seven of the nine are gone
now.
Oh, yes! I remember all my friends. Not only those in
Ramadan.
How often does one person have such dear and tender
friends killed in Tabriz, Shiraz, Yazd, Teheran, and now
Ramadan?
I can see the shining, radiant faces of the members of
that Local Spiritual Assembly on the day we met, as if it
were yesterday. First, we sat down together for a Persian
dinner. I can still smell the fragrant, wonderful Persian
feast they served. It was a work of art laid out before us on
the long table heaped with delicious delicacies.
I remember chilaufisinjan, Khurisht-i-badinjan. There is
no chicken in the world more tasty. Mast va Khiyar,
Kharbozeh, Talebi, melons of such fragrance - on and on
went the wonders. The food was only surpassed by the
love and hospitality of all our hosts and hostesses in
Ramadan, and all the dear believers.
Most of all, I remember the people. Their laughter and

HAMADAN
fellowship. A little round-faced boy just learning to talk.
His big black saucer-eyes flashing as he giggled every
time I looked at him. He kept saying; 'Khuda Hafiz',
'Goodbye', instead of 'Hello'. Even when he was hugging
my knees in welcome.
Everybody was radiant, sparkling, filled with happi-
ness. Baha'i friends from across the seas in America had
come to Ramadan to visit.
I can still picture the very dignified Baha'i who read
from the Baha'i writings af the start of our meeting.
When the reading was finished, I whispered to my
nearest neighbour. 'Farsi-i-man khub nist. (My Persian is
not good.) Translate for me, please.'
He did. I could see that he knew the passage by heart.
So did I. I recognized it the moment he began.
They who are the people of God have no ambition
except to revive the world, to ennoble its life, and
regenerate its peoples. Truthfulness and good-will
have, at all times, marked their relations with all men.
Their outward conduct is but a reflection of their
inward life, and their inward life a mirror of their
outward conduct.
Those were happy, unforgettable hours in Ramadan.
At the close of our meeting that evening, another dear
Baha'i, also a member of the Local Spiritual Assembly,
ended our session by reading one of my favourite prayers.
It was from the pen of Baha'u'llah, Founder of the
Baha'i Faith. It was recited in English, in my honour. It
was my farewell to Ramadan.
0 Thou Who art the Lord of Lords! ... I bear witness
that Thy power hath encompassed the entire universe,
and that the hosts of the earth can never dismay Thee,
nor can the dominion of all peoples and nations deter
Thee from executing Thy purpose. I confess that Thou
hast no desire except the regeneration of the whole

A CRY FROM THE HEART
world, and the establishment of the unity of its peoples,
and the salvation of all them that dwell therein.
Well done, Hamadan.
Tabriz, Teheran, Shiraz and Yazd salute you!
The efforts made to suppress the Baha'i Faith and to
obliterate its name from the face of the country produced
exactly the opposite result in Hamadan. Because of the
heroic martyrdoms there, the Faith of Baha'u'llah was
proclaimed, as never before, to the frustration and fury of
the persecutors.
So prevalent was the proclamation of the Faith in this
city of some 200,000 inhabitants, so forceful the indigna-
tion and condemnation of the persecutions voiced by both
Muslims and Baha'is alike, that a religious judge took to
the airwaves, to television, to denounce ~uch behaviour.
He warned that anyone who continued to sympathize
with this false religion would be punished.
He repeated all the old familiar false charges levied
against the Baha'i community, hoping by his intimidation
to bring to an abrupt end this wave of protest and
sympathy which the actions of the torturers and persecu-
tors had aroused by their cruel treatment of the seven
Baha'i martyrs.
From the very first day of their imprisonment eleven
months ago, these heroes of Hamadan had openly
declared their willingness, nay their eagerness, to give
their lives for their Faith. When the day came, they were
abruptly told of their imminent execution, to take place
almost immediately. They proceeded to bathe, shave, put
on their best clothes, and to make themselves fragrant
with cologne and attar-of-rose. They were preparing to
meet their Lord.
Their fellow inmates, Muslims, who had come to
admire, respect and grow very fond of these cheerful,
courageous Baha'is, wept as they watched their new-
found friends preparing so calmly for their deaths. The

HAMADAN
Baha'i prisoners consoled them, and in a state of complete
serenity bade them a final farewell.
On Sunday morning at 3.00 a.m., a Baha'i woman,
working at the Government Hospital, was informed that
the bodies of the seven martyrs of Ramadan had been
transferred there. The bodies had been thrown, roughly
and callously, one on top of the other, like a pile of
discarded laundry.
By 8.30 that same mof\ling, a crowd of Baha'is, and
many who were not Baha'is, had gathered on the Hospital
grounds. Their number was rapidly increasing and
became so large and restless that the Hospital gates were
closed, shutting the people outside.
The crowd was still growing, sharing the grief and tears
of the Baha'is at the news of the tragic events that had
taken place. The Muslims were shocked at the cruelty and
disgraceful treatment which had been inflicted upon these
seven Baha'i victims. They said so.
The Baha'is requested an ambulance to transport their
fallen heroes to the cemetery. Their request was refused.
'The ambulance', they were told, 'is only for the use of
patients.'
Appeals to the cemetery authorities, and finally to the
provincial Government, were all denied. No one would
help.
The Muslims present were very upset at this heartless
injustice and hostility. They urged the Baha'is to protest.
Carry the bodies of your dead to the middle of Ramadan,
they advised, and demonstrate loudly against these cruel
acts.
'You are justified!' they insisted.
The Baha'is told them that, as Baha'is, they were law-
abiding, peace-loving, and loyal to their government.
They would obey, however unjust and painful the cruel
restrictions against them might be.
'If we cannot secure an ambulance,' the Baha'is told the

A CRY FROM THE HEART
crowd, 'we shall carry our martyrs upon our shoulders to
the Baha'i cemetery.'
Because of the delays, the crowd of people gathered
outside the Hospital gate grew larger. The crush became
so threatening that finally, because of the insistence and
loud clamour of the crowd, the gates were opened. They
flooded into the Hospital grounds.
Mrs Mutlaq, the wife of one of the martyrs, stood on a
stool and delivered a moving and eloquent speech about
the seven who had just died so gallantly. Perfectly calm
and composed, with no criticism of the authorities
whatsoever, Mrs Mutlaq explained the Baha'i principles
and the fundamental truths of the Faith, for which her
husband and his six companions had given their lives.
'These seven innocent men', she said, 'have shed their
blood so that the hearts of all men everywhere can be
washed clean, and freed from all hatred and enmity.'
Her words penetrated the hearts of the crowd, and were
well received.
Another Baha'i woman began to chant a Baha'i prayer
in a loud, clear and melodious voice. The large crowd
listened in absolute silence. Even the employees and staff
of the hospital had stopped work, and gathered to listen to
both the talk and the prayer. One of the ambulance
drivers was so -moved by what he heard, that he
volunteered his own ambulance to transfer the seven
martyrs to the Baha'i cemetery.
Those precious bodies, still clad in their blood-stained
clothes, and in full view of the crowd, were placed
lovingly inside the ambulance. Slowly, it set out for the
Baha'i cemetery.
Muslims and Baha'is were deeply touched by the scene.
Spontaneously they began to applaud, as they cried out
the praises of God.
'Allah-u-Akbar!'
'Allah-u-Abha!'
In such dramatic and thrilling manner, in a united

HAMADAN
expression of love and unity, the sombre procession
passed through the hospital gates, and began its journey
toward the final resting-place of those seven innocent
victims.
The ambulance, and its huge retinue of mourners who
moved solemnly in its wake, passed through one of the
poorer sections of Hamadan. Shopkeepers closed their
doors, came out into the street, and joined the great
multitude of mourners. They asked why these men had
been killed. What had they llone? They were curious and
deeply touched by the great show of love and respect for
the fallen heroes. All their questions were answered, as
the solemn procession wound its way through the city.
It was a day of proclamation such as Hamadan had not
seen since the historic days of Tahirih. The door had been
opened by the deaths of these seven brave soldiers in the
'radiant spiritual Army of Baha'u'llah'!
As they neared the cemetery, people came out of the
nearby houses and joined the funeral procession. They,
too, were told what had happened and why. They,
likewise, were indignant and angered. By the time the
funeral cortege reached the Baha'i cemetery, the proces-
sion was two kilometres long. There, in the cemetery, as
preparations for the final interment began, the questions
and the answers about the Baha'i Faith continued
unabated. For every Baha'i present on that occasion,
there were ten Muslims.
As those precious bodies were being washed and
prepared for burial, the tortures which they had been
forced to endure were plain for everyone to see. The
record of the inhuman treatment, to which they had all
been subjected, was written on their broken bodies.
Some of the Muslims who, at first, had come mostly out
of curiosity, pressed forward to see the wounds for
themselves. They were outraged at what they beheld.
They cursed the authorities who had perpetrated these
hideous, cruel acts. Quickly they went among the Muslim

A CRY FROM THE HEART
crowd to tell what they had seen. They, themselves, they
said, were eyewitnesses to the barbarous behaviour of the
Hamadan authorities. A commotion began to stir among
the crowd. Other Muslim visitors pushed their way
forward to see for themselves if these rumours were true.
They were.
Some of the Muslim sympathizers went so far as to
leave the cemetery, and return with their relatives and
friends. They wanted them to behold, with their own eyes,
the ruthless persecutions which had been inflicted upon
those victims of hatred.
During the reading of the prayer for the dead, members
of the crowd, who were not Baha'is, quickly learned the
verses and joined in the chanting of the repetitive parts of
the Baha'i text. The final interment took place before
sunset that same day.
It was indeed a time of unique proclamation for
Hamadan. It had foiled every plan of the persecutors, and
the death of the seven heroes had been triumphant.

Shiraz
No one in Iran has yet devised a more economical way to
add to his own property and possessions than by
confiscation, however illegally, of Baha'i resources.
I spent happy hours and happy days with the Baha'is in
Shiraz, visiting their beautiful Centre with its trees,
flowers, gardens, and lovely paths. Confiscated now.
Vandalized, looted, then occupied by the Revolutionary
authorities for their own use.
The executions in Shiraz have now stretched out over a
three-year period. They culminated in the murder of five
Baha'is in March and April of this year, 1981.
The story of each one of these heroes of God would
make a novel by itself. Each story is filled with the
necessary ingredients: suspense, drama, hate, love, sacri-
fice, and finally death. They will all be told, again and
again, in the future.
The story of each one is being recorded for the annals
of Shiraz:
Mr Yadu'llah Val].dat
Mr Sattar Khushkhu
Mr Ihsanu'llah Mihdi-Zadih
Mr Mihdi Anvari
Mr Hidayatu'llah Dihqani
The account of the deaths of the two Baha'is from
Abadih who were executed in Shiraz gives yet another
proof of the indomitable courage of these martyrs in the
Ill

A CRY FROM THE HEART
face of the brutality and viciousness, both mental and
physical, of the torturers assigned to kill them.
The execution of Hidayatu'llah Dihqani and Mihdi
Anvari created a stir among the people of Shiraz, both
Baha'is and non-Baha'is. Until the very last moment of
their lives the Revolutionary Guards had hammered at
them time and again to induce them to recant their Faith.
It is the favourite game of the various religious regimes in
Iran, a killer's game that has been played for nearly one
hundred and fifty years.
'You can be freed,' they were told. 'We'll call off the
execution. You can live, not die. You can go back to your
wives and children. Safe and free.'
They both refused.
So the execution began.
But the executioners were not finished with their
cunning tortures. They still hoped to force a recantation
from these two brave men by resorting to surprise and
terror, hoping to break their spirits at the last moment. All
the preliminary preparations for the final execution were
completed. The victims braced themselves to die for the
Faith they loved. They were offering prayers of thanks-
giving for being given this special honour. The guns were
raised, the order given, the guns fired. Everything was
carried out precisely.
Except for one thing.
The executioners deliberately missed their v1ct1ms.
They were not struck by the bullets even though their
bodies may have flinched at the sound of the gunfire. The
guns had been fired into the air. It was a mock execution
designed to break down the resistance of the two victims,
to frighten Anvari and Dihqani into saying at last that,
since they had had this chance to think it over, they were
not Baha'is after all. It was hoped they would recant,
rather than go through that scene of death all over again.
The cruel tactics backfired. It only stiffened the resolve
of these two courageous men.

SHIRAZ
'Will you recant now?'
'Never!'
The Revolutionary Guards offered them one last
chance to denounce their Faith. One of those dear souls
said calmly in reply:
'Our Beloved [the Bab] received seven hundred and
fifty of your bullets. Why should we fear your three or
four!'
Frustrated, infuriated, and foiled in all their attempts,
the executioners finally carried out their murderous work.
Mr Anvari, as a last wish, asked his family to distribute
sweets among those who had executed them, so that he
might thank them for the privilege of dying for his
religion. The family carried out his request. They offered
money rather than sweets. They did not want to know
who the executioner of their husband and father had
been.
The families, the Baha'i survivors, were staunch and
courageous in the face of continuing difficulties and
harassment. In answer to a message of sympathy from the
World Centre of their Faith, Mr Dihqani's family replied:
'We still have some drops of eager blood in our family,
and we are ready to off er them in the path of God
whenever it is necessary.'
The daughter of one of these martyrs of Shiraz, an
eight-year-old Baha'i student, was the only child permit-
ted to visit her father on the day of his execution. This
little girl, in this same spirit, brought flowers and sweets to
distribute to her teacher and classmates. The teacher was
surprised. She asked: 'Is it a Baha'i custom to do such a
thing when one's father is killed?'
The little girl replied proudly:
'My father was not killed. He was martyred.'
I love her.

Tabriz
Still another cablegram!
TABRIZ, JULY 14, 1980, YADU'LLAH ASTANI,
FARAMARZ
SAMANDARI
CHAIRMAN
AND
MEMBER LOCAL ASS EMBLY TABRIZ SHOT TO
DEATH TODAY. DETAILS FOLLOW.
Details followed soon after. Same baseless accusations,
trumped-up charges, illegal arrest, imprisonment and
execution.
Their crime?
They were members of the Baha'i Local Spiritual
Assembly of Tabriz. A great honour elsewhere in the
world. A crime meriting death in Iran.
Yes, I knew them both. I stopped for some time in
Tabriz. I met with the Local Spiritual Assembly there,
and with all the dear Baha'i friends in that city.
The Herald of the Baha'i Faith, the Bab Himself, had
been shot to death by a firing-squad in Tabriz, in the same
month of July, 131 years before.
Oh yes, the whole Baha'i world knows about Tabriz.
They know in detail about the baseless accusation and
false charges which led to the death of these two
wonderful men who were servants of their fellow men,
their city, and their country, and who did more good for
Tabriz than all their accusers combined.

TABRIZ
It was growing late. July 14th was almost over. Earlier
that night Dr Samandari and Mr Astani had been
informed that they would die in a few hours.
They prayed and prepared themselves for death.
Both these elected representatives of the Baha'is of
Tabriz had shed such love upon their fellow prisoners and
guards, who were not Baha'is, that when these Muslims
heard the news that their newly-made friends were to be
shot to death, they wept.
At midnight, Yadu'llah 'Astani and Dr Faramarz
Samandari were taken from the prison and led to the
scene of their execution. They walked past several of the
other prisoners, who had been convicted of drug activity
and other crimes. These prisoners, who knew they would
soon die themselves, shouted loudly in protest at the
Revolutionary Guards and executioners:
'We are guilty!'
'Kill us!'
'But why kill the kind doctor? Why?'
Dr Samandari had been called at times to the prison
infirmary to treat the prisoners. Now, he and his fellow
Baha'i brother, Yadu'llah Astani, were to be killed.
Whatever false charges may have been announced, they
both knew only too well that they were being killed for
one reason only.
They were Baha'is.
There had been little time for Mr Astani and Dr
Samandari to send a last message of love to their dear
ones. They did the best they could. They incorporated
their tender goodbyes in their Wills, written as they were
about to die.
In almost every case, the heroes and heroines of God
have hurriedly written down their last thoughts to their

Dr Faramarz Samandari with his wife and children. He was executed in Tabriz, July 14, 1980

TABRIZ
loved ones. Hastily, abruptly, death came to them
suddenly and unexpectedly. The prison authorities still
have not surrendered some of these precious Wills to the
families and survivors to whom they were written with
such tender love.
I want to share with you one of these last precious
moments, from the farewell words of an innocent victim
of oppression and hate. A hero of this great religious
drama being unfolded acrpss the entire face of Iran.
There are many like him.
What does the heart say in such a moment?
The photograph shows you the happy and loving
family of Dr Fanimarz Samandari of Tabriz. It was taken
in happier days, before he was illegally arrested, falsely
accused, unlawfully imprisoned, tried, and executed on
trumped-up charges. Imagine if you were the darling
wife, and had received the following letter, a last letter
from the one dearest to you in all the world, one who
never again in this world would hold you to his heart.
You were expecting to hear his familiar footstep at the
door any minute, free! Everyone knew how wonderful he
was, and how utterly false and ridiculous were the charges
made against him. Then, suddenly, out of the blue, they
told you he was dead. Shot to death for being a lover of
his fellow men.
Now, this. A letter. Not your husband, but merely a last
remnant of his love.
Or, possibly, you are the husband, the victim of such
tyrants.
What then? What would you have written to your dear
ones in those last fast-fleeting moments of your life?
This is what was written by one of the dearest Baha'i
friends anyone could ever have.
It is taken from the last Will and Testament of
Faramarz Samandari:

A CRY FROM THE HEART
In the name of God, the Merciful, the
Compassionate!
'O my God, the All-knowing
Thou art the One Who knowest
the secrets of my heart.'
'Abdu'l-Baha
After confirming my belief in the Oneness of God
and in the reality of His Messengers including the
prophet Muhammad, and confessing the truth of His
Holiness Baha'u'llah,
at this moment when I am
spending the last hours of my life in prison, I write
these few lines as my will.
I have committed no crime except being a Baha'i. I
have sincerely served this country and its people.
All my belongings, movable and immovable which I
have now or I might receive in the future, I leave to my
wife Anita (Carr) Samandari. So also, with whatever
funds are in my bank accounts. She is free to use them
in whatever way she wishes.
I request that my dear wife Anita do her utmost in
training our children, Kiyumars, Maryam and Kam-
yar. I apologize to her for leaving her to shoulder the
heavy responsibility of bringing up the children all
alone. I ask my sisters to assist Anita whole-heartedly
in raising our children.
Goodbye my honourable father and mother. Good-
bye my dear Anita. Goodbye my dear Kiyumars, dear
Maryam and dear Kamyar. Goodbye my dear sisters,
Farangiz, Mehrangiz, Ruhangiz, Shoorangiz, Simin
and Nasrin. Goodbye my dear Baha'i and non-Baha'i
friends.
In two more hours I am to be executed by a firing-
s_quad together with my dear Baha'i brother Yadu'llah
Astani. I am most grateful to everyone.
Please pray for the progress of my soul.
Signed,
SAMANDARi
[The above statement is certified. Seal of- Prison of Islamic
Revolution of Iran.]

TABRIZ
Baha'i families in Abadih, Abram, Andrun-Birjand,
Buyr-Ahmad, Bukan, Jahrum, Karaj, Khurasan, Khur-
muj, Mahabad, Miyan-Du'ab, Nuk-Birjand, Piranshahr,
Rasht, Sanandaj, Shiraz, Tabriz, Teheran, Ushnaviyyih,
Urumiyyih, Yazd, and God alone knows in what addi-
tional cities of bloodthirsty Iran may, by the time this
reaches you, have already read with broken hearts a
similar message from a loved one written from a different
pnson.
Or, as a last insult, these tender words of love,
encouragement and farewell, may be held back deliber-
ately by the authorities, so that those dear ones may go to
their graves without sharing that last embrace of loving
words with their fathers, mothers, wives, sons and
daughters.
The Iranian Representative to the United Nations said
that there was no organized plan to persecute the Baha'is
in Iran. Less than two weeks later, Yadu'llah Astani and
Dr Faramarz Samandari, two Baha'is being held in
prison, were dead in Tabriz. Suddenly, unexpectedly,
someone was sent to Tabriz from Teheran, the capital, to
carry out the summary execution order.
It was announced first on the radio, then later the same
day on television, that two Baha'is, the Chairman and a
member of the Baha'i Local Spiritual Assembly of Tabriz,
had been found guilty of crimes against the State.
They were executed for these unknown crimes.
A representative of the Baha'i community in Iran met
with a high official on the same day as that fatal
announcement. The official was greatly surprised. He did
not know how it happened, but suddenly, out of the blue,
came the news that two Baha'is had been executed in
Tabriz.
No one, especially those in authority, seemed to know

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
anything at all about an orderly, systematic, and thorough
campaign to erase gradually from the face of Iran their
single largest religious minority.
Yet the killings went on. Systematically, gradually, and
in an orderly fashion. How passing strange!
The charges, however, must have been extremely
familiar to everyone, from the Revolutionary Guards to
the Revolutionary Courts. The same misrepresentations,
false accusations, fraudulent, trumped-up charges ap-
peared again in Tabriz:
1. Conspiring against the Government
2. Spying for Israel
3. Conspiring against the sovereignty of the country
4. Participating in the Baha'i Conferences in London and
New Delhi
5. Plotting against Islam
6. Being involved in immorality and prostitution
The first three charges have already been fully an-
swered. Number four is amusing, isn't it? If it hadn't
brought death in its wake.
The authorities have left out the Conferences in
Sydney, Singapore, Chicago, Panama City, Merida (Mex-
ico), Nairobi, Stockholm, Frankfurt, Kampala, Hong
Kong, Saporro, Auckland, Palermo, Port Louis (Mauri-
tius Island), Helsinki, Reykjavik, and more than a dozen
other Baha'i Conferences whose locations escape me at
the moment. These Conferences have been going on for
years with the enthusiastic support of the cities in which
they were held.
I could look them up, but it seems entirely unnecessary,
as the whole world was informed by press, radio,
television, and magazine articles about them. They were
world-wide gatherings with always the same theme:
1. The oneness and unity of the entire human race.

TABRIZ
2. The peace, prosperity and security of all nations, great
and small (including Iran).
3. The Baha'i Message of love and fellowship for people
of all races, nations and religions.
Can you believe that, according to their own record,
one of the reasons for killing Yadu'llah Astani and Dr
Faramarz Samandari was for participating in such Baha'i
Conferences in London and New Delhi?
The World Press in general praised those Baha'i
gatherings as peace-loving and inspiring. Some news-
papers gave headlines to those international gatherings:
'WELCOME BAHA'iS!'
And: 'Please come back!'
Some cities, blessed by these Conferences, reported that
they had never seen such an orderly, courteous, non-
violent group of people in such great numbers in their
cities before.
There were no street riots, no drunken brawls, no acts
of vandalism. There were, instead, many stories of hotel
managers and bus drivers who were so attracted and
pleased by the Baha'is assembled in their city that, as a
parting gift, they were invited to special free farewell
breakfasts, lunches and dinners.
One bus driver took his entire Baha'i group to his own
favourite restaurant for breakfast in his company bus on
their final morning, as his guests, because he didn't want
to say goodbye to the Baha'is just yet. The hours he had
spent with them, he said, had been too wonderful.
Baha'is, surely, were quite different from the rest of the
peoples of the world.
Everyone who came in contact with the Baha'i spirit on
those occasions felt good! Even the prisoners and guards
in Tabriz prison on that fatal midnight had felt this love
radiating from Yadu'llah Astani and Dr Faramarz
Samandari.
A representative of the International Red Cross, who

A CRY FROM THE HEART
visited Tabriz prison, later reported that he remembered
seeing two Baha'is in prison in Tabriz 'who were very nice
and well-liked, even by the prison authorities'.
The writings of the Baha'i Faith say clearly and
unequivocally that Baha'is everywhere in the world must
be lovers of mankind. These are the superior people of
whatever country, creed or colour they may be.
At every great International Baha'i Conference, the
followers of Baha'u'llah are motivated by these words,
instructions from the Baha'i writings telling them how
they must behave among the people of the world. There
are no exceptions:
I charge you all that each one of you concentrate all the
thoughts of your heart on love and unity. When a
thought of war comes, oppose it by a stronger thought
of peace. A thought of hatred must be destroyed by a
more powerful thought of love ...
If you desire with all your heart friendship with every
race on earth, your thought, spiritual and positive, will
spread; it will become the desire of others, growing
stronger and stronger, until it reaches the minds of all
men.
Dr Samandari and Y adu'llah Astani, at the New Delhi
and London Baha'i Conferences, along with their thou-
sands and thousands of Baha'i brothers and sisters from
the five races of mankind, were 'alive with plans to
dedicate the rest of their lives to the welfare and
betterment of mankind'.
They were prepared to die for it.
They did!
The spirit of every Baha'i Conference, such as those in
London and New Delhi, can be found in these words
from the Baha'i writings:
All peoples and nations are of one family, the children
of one Father [God], and should be to one another as

TABRIZ
brothers and sisters! I hope that you will endeavour in
your lives to show forth and spread this teaching.
Man should be gentle, 'but when he becomes ferocious
he is more cruel and malicious than the most savage of the
animal creation!'
Yadu'llah Astani and Dr Faramarz Samandari found
that to be true in the city of Tabriz.
We cannot leave Tabriz without dealing directly with the
false charge that Yadu'l/ah Astani and Dr Faramarz
Samandari were involved in immorality and prostitution.
Let me begin by saying that to anyone even the least
familiar with the Baha'i Faith such an accusation is both
asinine and fatuous. This charge is the utter, absolute,
depraved limit.
I said earlier that this book would not be a dignified
White Paper to be presented to governments, nor a calm,
reasoned diplomatic response for United Nations Confer-
ences. It is exactly what the title says it is: A Cry from the
Heart! So my non-violent fury and peaceful indignation
have to leak out once in a while. I'll try to keep them
under control.
But not right now.
I'm not used to having dearly-loved and close friends
strangled, stabbed, stoned, set on fire, and shot down for
no reason at all except that they were Baha'is, the most
wonderful thing in the world they could possibly be, if
they wanted to be helpful to their fellow men.
The present regime in Iran says they are not being
killed because of their religion, that many people are
being executed for many reasons, all criminal, as p_art of
the great Islamic Revolution.
I repeat, that the killing of my Baha'i friends is not a

A CRY FROM THE HEART
part of anything. It is a separate, pre-arranged plan of
genocide. It has been from the start.
It is only the Baha'is in Iran who, in all parts of the
country, are being systematically, regularly, and ruth-
lessly slain, according to this well-planned attempt to do
away with them all behind the smoke-screen of the
Islamic Revolution.
I know you've heard this several times, but not half as
often as the world has heard the present regime in Iran
say, 'They are not killed because they are Baha'is, but
because they are criminals.'
I say, 'Rubbish!'
I should have a stamp made of my views, and just bang
it down on the page every now and then. Or, I could have
one of my musician friends compose a theme song for
them called:
'Which side is your side? Homicide or genocide?'
All right! So it's sarcastic.
Is it any worse than tying a farmer's darling wife to a
wooden door, soaking her with kerosene, and setting her
ablaze?
You have read her story.
Somebody, somewhere, sometime, should have the
right to say: 'Shame! Crime! Killer loose on the innocent!'
Fair is fair.
I didn't write this book to throw bouquets of roses at
them for murder and arson. I'd be ashamed of myself if I
didn't cry killer! And then found that they'd slyly,
cunningly, and inexorably done away with every Local
Assembly member, their wives, their families, and their
friends before the world really believed they were
murderous animals.
'Hey! What that sportscaster was telling us was true!'
Pity!
I hope the editor leaves all these comments in the book.
I wouldn't want you to miss them.
Storm's over. Calm.

TABRIZ
To be honest, this is all a prelude to one of the foulest and
most evil of all their persecutions thus far. Against all
Baha'i families. In fact, it was this fresh insult to decency
that brought on the above outburst. Not content with
killing Baha'is and destroying their Holy Places, they
have come up with a new abomination.
They are going to murder Baha'i marriages!
I mean it. You won't believe what you're about to read,
but it's true. Every word.
I apologize to the families of Y adu'llah Astani and Dr
Faramarz Samandari for even dignifying this accusation
with an answer, but in the hope of 'awakening the dead'
in the various Departments of the authorities in Tabriz, I
shall take up and refute their next groundless charge
against these two innocent souls.
Actually, these charges of immorality go back as far as
138 years, to the very beginning of the Faith. The Bab
Himself was accused of spreading immorality. This
baseless accusation was trumped up as long ago as that.
The crudity of purpose was readily apparent to the
historians of those days. They were not Baha'is, not
followers of the Bab, not Persian; they were European.
These historians knew that the enemies of the Bab were
quite capable of manufacturing whatever false charges
they felt were necessary in order to undermine the Bab
with the people, and thus enable them, eventually, to kill
Him.
And they did so.
The unbiased reports of outsiders who were privileged
to review the character and life of the Bab have said that
the 'morality' and 'ethics' He exemplified were above
reproach. Here is a statement by Edward Granville
Browne in his Notes to A Traveller's Narrative:
Of the extraordinary purity and piety of the Bab's life,
indeed, we have ample evidence. His bitterest enemies
cannot asperse his personal character.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Lord Curzon in his Persia and the Persian Question
pointed out:
At the present time the [followers of the Bab] are
equally loyal with any other subjects of the
Crown ... The charge of immorality seems to have
arisen partly from the malignant inventions of oppo-
nents, partly from the much greater freedom claimed
for women by the Bab, which in the oriental mind is
scarcely dissociable from profligacy of conduct ...
Broadly regarded, [the Faith of the Bab] may be
defined as a creed of charity, and almost of common
humanity. Brotherly love, kindness to children, cour-
tesy combined with dignity, sociability, hospitality,
freedom from bigotry, friendliness ... are included in
its tenets.
The same was said by the friends of Dr Samandari and
Mr Astani 13 1 years later. In almost exactly the same
words:
'The morality and ethics of these two prisoners are
above reproach.'
Everyone -
Baha'is and non-Baha'is alike - fully
expected them both to be released as innocent of all the
charges. They were, of course, not tried on the charges.
Nor were they killed because of them.
You know why they were killed.
This false accusation of 'immorality' against the
Baha'is has its roots in the fact that, in accordance with
the Baha'i principle of complete and unquestioned
equality of the sexes, there is no segregation of men and
women during Baha'i meetings or prayers.
Furthermore, women, as well as men, serve on Baha'i
administrative institutions, and participate on a basis of
complete equality in all the local and national activities of
the Baha'i community.
In order to activate this century-and-a-half-old accusa-
tion the fanatics in Iran have adopted some of their
cruellest measures of persecution. They have found a new

TABRIZ
way to justify their current charges of immorality and
prostitution, and have used these totally false charges as
part of the reasons for killing and debasing two pure-
hearted, honourable family men whose lives were filled
with an integrity and decency which murderers seldom
recognize, and never possess. Especially those who
assassinate character as well as body.
Iran recognizes the marriage of the Jewish, Christian
and Zoroastrian Faiths. They refuse to recognize or
legalize the marriages of the Baha'is - the largest single
religious minority in the country, with more members
than all the other three religious minorities combined.
Since they do not recognize Baha'i marriages, any
father, mother, husband, wife, son or daughter who is part
of such a condemned illegal marriage is immoral,
profligate, defiled, and guilty of the spread of prostitution,
or illegitimate.
This cruel misrepresentation of the true facts of Baha'i
marriage shames the father, the mother, and the children
before the public. They are insulted on the streets, in the
bazaars, the shopping centres, wherever they go. Sly and
foul comments can be heard, until no mother wishes to
take her children where they can be subject to such vile
remarks.
The children suffer enough as it is at school, those who
haven't already been expelled. They are often beaten,
always harassed. The husbands and wives are branded as
adulterous if they remain together. They are accused of
fostering adultery in their community by being seen
together.
The wives are considered as prostitutes, the husbands
as adulterers, and prostitutes cannot mingle with adulter-
ers in public. The law and decree say it is a crime,
punishable by imprisonment.
It is another string to the enemies' bow, one that carries
the arrow of extermination directly to their Baha'i target.
The authorities are determined that there shall be no

A CRY FROM THE HEART
legal Baha'i families anywhere in Iran. Every member of
the family of this illegal minority religion is thus, one way
or another, a criminal, merely by being a father, mother,
uncle, aunt, grandfather, or grandmother.
No need to carry the madness any further. Everyone
knows the secret purpose.
The present regime in Iran has, in this way, deliberately
cast mud at one of the most sacred elements of Baha'i life:
marriage and the family. It is important for us to examine
this aspect, not to answer the obviously false charges, but
to demonstrate the cruel brutality of any regime that
would deprive the world of such beauty as Baha'i
marriage.
For the first time in religious history, the Founder of a
religion has Himself given the words which the bride and
groom will speak, at the moment of their marriage, words
to bind the two lovers together in a holy and lasting
relationship as husband and wife, father and mother.
Baha'u'llah wishes for them a beautiful, sanctified,
enduring and fruitful life. And He, the Founder of the
religion, has Himself participated. It is as unique as it is
thrilling.
The marriage ceremony can be as modest or as
elaborate as the couple may wish, but the heart and soul
of it all - the everlasting tie which binds husband and wife
together - are the simple words, the brief and significant
marriage vows which Baha'u'llah Himself, God's Mes-
senger for today, has given to the bride and groom to bless
and consecrate that union eternally.
Can you imagine the thrill which Christian, Buddhist,
or Muslim bride and groom would feel if they knew that
the vows they were about to take had been given to them
by Christ Himself, or Buddha, or Muhammad?
Baha'i marriage is as spiritual, beautiful, and inspiring
as any human relationship the world has yet seen. How
could it be otherwise? For Baha'u'llah has emphasized
that we are all the sons and daughters of one Father, God.

TABRIZ
He is the Father of all His human family. Therefore,
Baha'u'llah tells us, the family, the basic unit of society,
upon which a strong home, a strong city, a strong nation,
a strong world depend must partake of this same spirit of
love and unity.
If, the next time the terrorists in Iran break into and
vandalize the Baha'i Centre in Tabriz and confiscate all
the documents, they will look under the initial 'M' - for
'Marriage', they will find the answer to their cruel and
baseless charge of adultery. They will find the following
instruction for the guidance of all Baha'is: 'Sex relation-
ships outside marriage are not permissible', and whoso
violates this rule 'will suffer severe spiritual deprivation'
and be 'responsible to God'.
Furthermore, the Baha'i writings add: 'Baha'u'llah says
adultery retards the progress of the soul in the after life -
so grievous is it - [thus] we see how clear are our [Baha'i]
teachings on these subjects.'
The Baha'i Faith clearly and specifically denounces
immorality and debased standards of behaviour, saying to
every Baha'i in the world:
The Baha'i community must demonstrate in ever-
increasing measure its ability to redeem the disorderli-
ness, the lack of cohesion, the permissiveness, the
godlessness of modern society; the laws, the religious
obligations, the observances of Baha'i life, Baha'i moral
principles and standards of dignity, decency and
reverence, must become deeply implanted in Baha'i
consciousness and increasingly inform and characterize
this community.
Baha'u'llah has Himself revealed special prayers for
marriage so that the husband and wife may keep their
wedlock ever green and fragrant.
The following words are a general statement about
Baha'i marriage, and will set at rest the hearts of the

A CRY FROM THE HEART
families of those who have been condemned and slain for
believing in its beauty:
The bond that unites hearts most perfectly is loyalty.
True lovers once united must show forth the utmost
faithfulness one to another. You must dedicate your
knowledge, your talents, your fortunes, ... your bodies
and your spirits to God, to Baha'u'llah, and to each
other.
Allow no trace of jealousy to creep between you, for
jealousy, like unto poison, vitiates the very essence of
love. Let not the ephemeral incidents and accidents of
this changeful life cause a rift between you. When
differences present themselves, take counsel together in
secret, lest others magnify a speck into a mountain.
Harbour not in your hearts any grievance, but rather
explain its nature to each other with such frankness and
understanding that it will disappear, leaving no remem-
brance. Choose fellowship and amity and tum away
from jealousy and hypocrisy ...
Let your hearts be like unto two pure mirrors
reflecting the stars of the heaven of love and beauty ...
No mortal can conceive the union and harmony
which God has designed for man and wife. Nourish
continually the tree of your union with love and
affection, so that it will remain ever green and verdant
throughout all seasons and bring forth luscious fruits
for the healing of the nations.
Hide your face in shame, Tabriz! July 14, 1980, was not
only the day you took the lives of two decent, pure-
hearted, innocent men; it was also the day you tried to kill
love and beauty and sweetness and decency, and mortally
wound every family.
Every honourable man and woman who walks the face
of the earth is ashamed of you!
Especially brides and grooms, fathers and mothers, and
all their children. Shame!

TABRIZ
TABRIZ SPECIAL REPORT
I was taking this manuscript to the editors, and had just
stepped off the plane, when I was handed another
cablegram.
A report from Tabriz.
Seven more members of the Local Spiritual Assembly
of Tabriz had been shot to death, July 29, 1981, together
with a member of the Auxiliary Board, and another
member of the Baha'i community of that city.
There were public denials following the outcry against
these further killings. These denials, made in both the
press and on the radio, stated that there was no special,
systematic, organized plan of persecution against the
Baha'i community in Iran. The authorities insisted that
Baha'is were not killed because of their religion, but
because they were criminals. But the authorities, because
of pressure from the outside world, forgot themselves for
a moment, and called the Baha'i Faith a religion. They
slipped up here.
The seven members of the Local Spiritual Assembly
just executed in Tabriz were:
Mr Allah-Virdi Mithaqi
Mr Manuchihr Khaq.i'i
Mr 'Abdu'l-'Ali Asadyari
Mr J:Iusayn Asadu'llah-Zadih
Mr Isma'il Zihtab
Dr Parviz Firuzi
Mr Mihdi Bahiri
Killed with them in this second series of murders were
their fellow Baha'is:
Mr J:Iabibu'llah TalJ,qiqi
Dr Masrur Dakhili
This report went out immediately to over one-hundred-
thousand centres in all parts of the world, as promised.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
The entire Baha'i world, and all their friends, were
heart-stricken and shocked when they read the interna-
tional publicity describing the 'ruthlessness and rapidity
with which these precious lives of distinguished, virtuous
members of the Baha'i Community are being snuffed out,
their honour violated, their homes and possessions
plundered.'
No need to review the false charges made against these
innocent, law-abiding, peace-loving, loyal citizens of an
ungrateful country. They are the same fraudulent state-
ments that have already brought world shame to Tabriz
and Iran.
Improper trials, trumped-up charges, pre-arranged
verdicts, every one of which proclaims to all the world:
'Baha'is in Iran must die!'
Numbered among the victims of this latest massacre in
Tabriz were well-to-do doctors and engineers. They were
well-dressed when they were illegally arrested and impris-
oned. When their bodies were returned to their families
for burial, they were dressed in shabby rags. The
torturemongers of Iran steal from the living, and they
steal from the dead. There is a name for those who rob the
bodies of the departed.
They are called: Ghouls!

A Duet of Terror
'Good night, Harry!'
I was awakened in the middle of the night by a telephone
call from a friend. He was not a Baha'i, but he was very
upset. He wanted to know what was happening in Iran.
He had just read in the Los Angeles Times about the
execution of several Baha'is in Teheran. Earlier, he had
watched a television program in which a Government
official from Iran had repeated the same old charges
against the Baha'i Faith with which you are all too
familiar by this time.
Harry was outraged.
'How dare they say such terrible things about the
Faith?'
'We've been trying to answer the charges whenever we
get the chance, Harry.'
'Well, you're not doing a good job! Not by half! I'd
never even heard some of the wretched things this fell ow
was saying about the Baha'i Faith.'
'Of course, you hadn't, Harry. None of them are true.'
'All lies?'
'Every single one. Without exception. False and base-
less.'
'Then why isn't some Baha'i answering these beggars?'
'We are, Harry. Every chance we get.'
'You'd better arrange a few more chances, and bring up

A CRY FROM THE HEART
your big guns. This fellow was pretty convincing. He even
had me worried.'
'You should know better, Harry. You should have been
a Baha'i yourself, years ago.'
'I know. I'm a slow starter. You know that, Bill. But I'll
tell you one thing, if the rest of these Iranian officials are
as smooth as this joker, you Baha'is are in for some real
trouble.'
'We know that, Harry. We're already in it. We have
been for nearly one hundred and fifty years.'
'Yeah, but I'm talking right now, this very minute stuff.
If he can get me to wondering and boiling over, how
about some poor soul who doesn't know anything at all
about the Baha'i Faith? He'll be a pushover for all that
oil.'
'We're trying to prevent it, Harry.'
'I think you're taking it too lightly. Even the people in
my office are beginning to ask questions.'
'That's exactly what they want, Harry. To sow the seeds
of doubt.'
'Well, they're doing a good job. Better than you.'
'Truth will win out in the long run, Harry.'
'I'm worried about the short run. I really wanted to hit
this guy.'
'You've got the wrong spirit, Harry.'
'Maybe so, but just this morning, my boss said that
maybe there's a kernel of truth behind all these rumours
and charges against the Baha'i Faith.'
'There isn't, Harry. Not an ounce. Nobody knows that
better than you.'
'Then get on the television and radio and blast these
wretches. Stomp on 'em! Otherwise people are going to
say "Where there's smoke, there's fire.'' Right?'
'They'd be absolutely right, Harry.'
'What do you mean, right?'
'In this case the old saying is true. "Where there's

A DUET OF TERROR
smoke, there's fire." But not the version the present
regime in Iran is trying to peddle.'
'I don't follow.'
'The smoke, Harry, is from the burning of more than a
thousand Baha'i homes in Iran.'
'Are you kidding?'
'I'm deadly serious. Over three hundred houses in
Shiraz alone.'
'Then why aren't you telling the world about it? That's
simply terrible!'
'We are, Harry. You've just been living in your cocoon
again. Chances are some innocent Baha'i's home is going
up in smoke right now while we're talking.'
'I hate it!'
'We all do.'
'Get after them!'
'We're trying, Harry. They murdered a friend of mine
and his son. I won't forget that.'
'Where did that happen?'
'In a town named Miyan-Du'ab. My wife, Marguerite,
and I have been there together, as guests of the Local
Assembly at the Baha'i Centre. These terrorists burned
that Centre to the ground, Harry. And eighty other houses
in the region along with it. That's your smoke. They
confiscate the homes, loot them, sell the furniture, and put
a match to the people's houses while they look on,
helpless to prevent it.'
'That's got to be illegal. Why don't the authorities do
something about it?'
'They did, Harry. They set the fires.'
'I'm not prepared to believe that.'
'You'd better, Harry. It's a matter of public record in
the newsrooms the world over, not to mention the United
Nations. Their terrorists have burned houses from the
Caspian Sea to the Gulf of Oman, from Iraq to
Afghanistan. No place is safe.'
'Is that a fact?'

'Fact.'
'Really?'
A CRY FROM THE HEART
'Really. I've got the cablegram about Miyan-Du'ab
right here on the desk in front of me, Harry. BAHA'I
CENTRE DESTROYED IN MIYAN-DU'AB.
FATHER AND SON
MURDERED.'
'But why, Bill? Why?'
'They were Baha'is.'
'That's no reason. That's criminal.'
'Isn't it though?'
'My blood is beginning to boil.'
'Tum up the heat, Harry, and you may catch up with
me.'
'You said something about the fire?'
'I did indeed. These assassins and terrorists, not content
with burning down the Centre in Miyan-Du'ab and
killing the caretaker and his son, incited an enraged mob
to drag their bodies through the streets. They carved those
two dear souls to pieces with knives, and threw their
dismembered parts into the flames of a bonfire they had
kindled for that very purpose. That's your fire, Harry. Is it
good enough?'
'That's absolutely the most awful thing I ever heard.'
'These persecutions are happening every day to the
Baha'is in Iran, Harry. No one is safe. Sometimes it's even
worse than in Miyan-Du'ab.'
Harry was livid. He shouted at me.
'Then why aren't you personally doing something
about it? Instead of sitting around talking? Why don't you
go on television and denounce these murderers? Or radio?
Or take out full page ads in the papers? Anything! Write a
book about it!'
'Good night, Harry.'

A DUET OF TERROR
A Hero's Welcome!
Asadu'llah Mukhtari left his home in Birjand one
morning, driving his flock of sheep before him. It was a
sunny, cheerful day. In the evening, the sheep came home
alone. Asadu'llah was found the next day in the fields
near his home. He had been stoned to death.
Asadu'llah Mukhtari was martyred on a Monday
mornmg.
Asadu'llah and his family had often suffered before at
the hands of the people of their neighbourhood. After all,
the Mukhtaris were Baha'is and the neighbours were
hostile. Asadu'llah had been beaten with clubs, pounded
with fists, and struck on the head with heavy stones.
Twice he had been bedridden for months. His head was
crushed, his body bruised and scarred.
Everyone, especially his neighbours, expected Asadu' -
llah Mukhtari to die. He refused to die. In spite of pain
and difficulty Asadu'llah was up once again, as soon as
possible, tending his sheep.
On two separate occasions Asadu'llah's home had been
looted of all its furniture. It always happened when the
old shepherd and his family were away. They were very
poor. It would be a long time before they would be able to
save enough money to buy any kind of furniture again.
Fortunately, he still had his sheep.
Then, one day, while Asadu'llah and his wife and
children were away from home visiting their family and
friends in another village, someone stole his small flock of
sheep.
It was all Asadu'llah had in this world to support his
family. He knew very well that the sheep had been stolen
and driven off by their neighbours. Being completely
fearless, he went to the neighbours to recover them.
To his great sorrow, Asadu'llah found that his entire

A CRY FROM THE HEART
flock had already been slaughtered. The meat and profits
had been divided among the thieves.
He reminded the criminals that, according to their own
religion and Holy Book, they were not permitted to eat
stolen food.
They laughed, and replied:
'Our ulama (priests) tell us that it is not a crime to steal
the property of Baha'is. It is praise to God. Worship. We
will be rewarded by both God and man whenever we take
and dispose of what belongs to the Baha'is.' 'Everybody
in Iran knows that.'
They laughed at Asadu'llah's helplessness.
On another occasion a mob of more than a hundred
strong besieged Asadu'llah's tiny home. Again they
carried off the few possessions he had gradually acquired
since their last theft. Before leaving, laden with Asadu' -
llah's property, they took time to torture the old shepherd
a bit. They tried once again to force him to recant his
belief in Baha'u'llah and the Baha'i Faith.
'Deny your faith!' they insisted.
Asadu'llah shook his head. To himself he said, 'Will
they never learn?'
His steadfast refusal, in the face of direct threats, made
the mob all the more angry. One of them suggested, 'Let's
cut his throat.' Others favoured burning the old shepherd
alive.
Asadu'llah Mukhtari was calm and serene through it
all. Fearlessly, he said to them: 'I have some excellent logs
in my storage bin, and a container of kerosene.'
He took a box of matches from his pocket and handed
it to the ringleader. 'Here,' he said. 'Do as you please. I
am at your mercy.'
The crowd hesitated. Asadu'llah's bravery and con-
tempt for their threats had shamed them. The old
shepherd, firm as a rock, declared: 'Even if you burn me
alive, I am still a Baha'i. I will never give up my Faith.'
His family moved solidly to his side.

A DUET OF TERROR
Asadu'llah announced, 'Even if you bum all of us
because we are Baha'is, you will not hear a single word
besides that from any of us. We are Baha'is. We will
remain Baha'is.'
The bravery and fearlessness of Asadu'llah and his
family had a dampening effect even on the hatred of
those stony-hearted criminals. A few of them started to
leave, grumbling, unsatisfied, but inwardly shamed.
They left the house grudgingly. The ringleader bra-
zenly warned Asadu'llah {hat they would surely return
another day.
They did.
This time they caught the old man alone in the fields
with his sheep. They clubbed him to death holding stones
in their fists.
A number of the murderers were defiant enough to
attend the inquest into Asadu'llah's death. They knew
they would never be punished for killing a Baha'i. After
all, as was said on so many occasions, 'that's what Baha'is
are for'.
It was surprising that they bothered to hold an inquest,
but Asadu'llah Mukhtari, though only a solitary shep-
herd, was a well-known figure. He had friends as well as
enemies.
The killers who attended the inquest boldly shouted
throughout. They insisted that they didn't want this old
shepherd's body buried in their town. They became quite
violent about it.
'It would be sacrilegious,' they said, 'to have a Baha'i
body buried in a decent town.'
A decent town of murderers! They saw no irony in it.
During the inquest, they boasted openly that they were
the ones who had killed the old man. With their bare
hands. They had pounded him to death with stones and
fists. They admitted it, and warned all the Baha'is present
that their tum was coming soon. They would all be killed.
'Depend on it,' they threatened.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
They warned the Baha'is that there would soon be
trouble all over the country. The time had come, they
insisted, for Baha'is to denounce their false religion and
become Muslims. Or die. Soon, they would have no other
choice. Any of them.
The Baha'is remained silent.
The police tried to quieten the ruffians. Not to protect
the Baha'is, but to get on with the inquest. The killers
didn't care. In front of the police, they even threw stones
and pebbles at the Baha'is who were attending the
inquest.
These self-confessed murderers were finally charged by
the police. That itself was an unexpected victory for the
Baha'is. The police felt obliged to do something. After all,
there was no denying they were guilty. They had
confessed to the crime themselves, publicly, openly. The
police, although reluctant, had no choice but to detain
them.
It was a hollow victory. Everyone knew that it was only
a formality necessitated by the circumstances. After all,
even the police had been amused when the criminals had
so loudly claimed the murder as their own.
It is a way with terrorists these days all over the world
to claim responsibility, even for horrible and shameful
deeds.
Asadu'llah had been killed for living the kind of life
that both Muhammad and Baha'u'llah would have
praised and admired.
Asadu'llah Mukhtari was a Baha'i. He had died for it.
His murderers had broken every law of God and man.
Yes, they were detained. But only temporarily. The
inquiry was a mockery. The murderers were completely
exonerated of any blame. All of them. They returned in
triumph to their homes to the cheers and applause of their
neighbours who gave them a hero's welcome.

Children
Hurrah for the ten-year-old Ayatollah!
We have written much about the courage, steadfastness
and heroism of the adult Baha'i martyrs, but we have
heard very little about the children. They encounter
hatred and prejudice daily and meet it with courage and
devotion. Some of them are heroic. It is only fair to point
out that the majority of the children, even at a tender age,
are as courageous and steadfast as their parents.
The children and youth of Baha'i families have always
been in the forefront of the teaching work. They love to
hear the stories about the Bab and Baha'u'llah, and repeat
them to their companions.
The Bab in His writings foretold that the children of
this new day would be quite different. The children of the
magnificent Age which He was ushering in, He said,
would be like the wise men of past ages. In His own
words:
The newly born babe of that Day excels the wisest and
most venerable men of this time, and the lowliest and
most unlearned of that period shall surpass in under-
standing the most erudite and accomplished divines of
this age.
Thousands of Baha'i children in these days face cruel
afflictions in the schools of Iran.

A CRY
FROM
THE
HEART
Most of these children are very studious. They often are
more knowledgeable than other children of their own age.
To acquire knowledge so that they can be of more service
to their fellow men, is an instruction of the Founder of
their Faith, Baha'u'llah. They love Baha'u'llah with all
their hearts. So they apply themselves to their studies.
They want to become teachers and pioneers, and the very
best at whatever profession they decide to follow.
Their Baha'i teachings tell them that as they grow up,
they must become 'distinguished' among the peoples of
the world, outstanding
in all their acts. The most
important thing for them to remember is that they must
become noble and spiritual human beings, of service to
mankind.
The children try with all their hearts to be faithful to
these instructions. They acquire knowledge.
In the classes at school, and in their Baha'i homes,
every day of their lives they learn the spirit of fellowship
and love. Not only in words, but in deeds and action.
They are taught that their whole life must be a good-
natured, friendly, loving prayer of service and usefulness
to all people, Baha'i and non-Baha'i alike.
They can never fulfil that goal unless they have a good
education. Therefore, they work hard, enjoy their studies,
and, as a result, are usually fine students.
Most of the Baha'i children know their Islamic
religious lessons better than their fellow students who are
Muslim. They can read the Koran and interpret it better
than their Muslim counterparts, sometimes even better
than their teachers.
The teachers complain to the Baha'i parents that,
because of this, the Baha'i children are sometimes made
prayer leaders. They are nicknamed by their fellow
students 'Ayatollahs' because of their deep understanding
of the Koran.
This causes much trouble for the little ten-year-old
Baha'i 'Ayatollahs'.

CHILDREN
Three against one! Ninety years against ten!
Baha'i children with such understanding, knowledge and
intelligence, are not favoured at all by the Ministry of
Education. According to the Ministry, children should all
be 'guided to the right path', which, in their minds, means
to Islam.
The Baha'i community in Iran is very much aware that
the Ministry pursues a detailed and organized plan
against the Baha'i children in all the schools of Iran.
There is ample evidence of it. It is an important part of
the overall plan of the clergy to obliterate the Baha'i
community.
There could be no more touching and heroic drama to
witness than these young ones standing firm and coura-
geous in the face of their tormentors. Adults, three at a
time, confronting one small but courageous Baha'i child.
The bravery of these little Baha'is pleases the other
children in their class. Not all are unfriendly. When these
confrontations take place in the general classroom, many
of the other children are sympathetic to the Baha'is. They
remember the friendship and love which these Baha'i
children have always shown so generously and spontane-
ously.
No one responds more quickly or more sincerely to
love than children. If left to themselves, they would never
be prejudiced one against another because of religion, nor
would their hearts be full of hate. It is only when
poisonous thoughts are planted in their naturally inno-
cent minds that they arise against their Baha'i classmates.
Sometimes a confrontation between a teacher who may
be thirty years old and a Baha'i child of ten or eleven
takes place before the entire class.
The teacher begins with a barrage of insults and false
statements about the Baha'i Faith. He harangues the
child.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
These Baha'i children have courageous spirits, and do
not quietly accept insults against their Faith. They resist
them. Their protests against the injustice of the teacher
touch off what amounts to a public discussion about the
Baha'i Faith in front of the class.
The unexpectedly impressive responses which that
young child gives to the teacher's questions and com-
ments often leave the teacher speechless. Expecting an
easy victory, he finds instead that he has cornered a ten-
year-old tiger.
It becomes like a game for the classroom. Like a tennis
match: Attack, defend! Forehand, backhand! Volley,
smash!
The children begin to respond to each one of the young
Baha'i's answers.
Question, answer. Applause.
Question, answer. Cheers.
Cries of 'Hurrah!'
'The Baha'i has overcome the mighty instructor!'
The children in the class delight in it. The teacher,
however, does not.
Frustrated by the answers the Baha'i child gives, he
becomes angrier and angrier. At last he leaves the
classroom to consult with other teachers.
They come to his rescue.
They call for that same Baha'i child at an hour when he
has other classes, such as gymnastics or mathematics.
They force him, against his wishes, to discuss the Baha'i
Faith with them. They are now three to one.
They argue and argue, shouting louder and louder,
trying to wear him down. With one such child, their
complete and frustrating failure, even at such odds, led to
violence and a beating. This was followed by forcing that
brave young boy to copy out dreadful passages from an
insulting booklet which attacked his Faith.
The child was sickened and became ill. When the
doctor was summoned, he said that his severe headaches

CHILDREN
were caused by the extreme pressure put upon such a
young and tender mind and by the lies he was forced to
write.
This is not an isolated instance. Similar things happen
to these poor Baha'i children day after day. Picture this.
Three adult ideologists trained by the Ministry of
Education are sent for. They, with a number of the older
students, join forces to confront a Baha'i child of ten or
eleven. With all their power and shouting, they try to
shatter the very foundation of this little fellow's beliefs.
Hour after hour they will hold him as a captive audience,
surrounded by enemies, a lamb encircled by wolves who
close in on all sides.
They use every unfair tactic they can think of to
frighten him and to refute whatever he says, or whatever
he has been taught at home.
Picture this marvellous ending to all their attacks: they
fail!
They are bewildered when they realize that all their
efforts against one young boy have been in vain. They are
in truth not only wonder-struck at the heroic steadfastness
of this child, but are shaken inwardly by the remarkable
replies which they have received to their insulting
questions.
The Baha'i children who have been taught to honour
all the Messengers of God, which certainly includes
Muhammad, reply with beautiful verses from the Koran
which disprove and destroy the attack being made against
them by their teachers. They support these quotations
with similar texts they have memorized from the writings
of their own Faith. They refuse to bend before the
onslaught launched against them.
Sometimes it means a beating. Sometimes they are
expelled from school for their belief in this 'false religion'.
It often depends on how angered their teacher has
become by his frustration.
On at least two occasions, students have been abducted

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
by these religious education teachers who have been so
ignominiously defeated by the words of their own Holy
Book, the Koran.
Girl students, against their wills, have been forcibly
married to Muslims, and denied access to their parents.
'My father was killed because he was a Baha'i.'
An instructor of religious education entered a classroom.
His first question was: 'Is there anyone in this class who
does not belong to the true religion?'
No one replied.
The instructor insisted.
'What I meant,' he said, 'is there a Baha'i in this class?'
A fifteen-year-old girl stood up.
'I', she said, 'am a Baha'i.'
The teacher in abusive and insulting language an-
nounced to the class:
'Let it be known to all of you that this girl is defiled and
untouchable, and none of you are to have any contact
with her.'
The teacher demanded that the Baha'i girl go to the
back of the room and sit at a desk by herself. He stated
that this arrangement was to be observed to the end of the
year; no one was allowed to sit next to a Baha'i.
The children in a class in Y azd were asked to write an
essay on what had happened to them during the summer.
The eleven-year-old daughter of one of the seven
martyrs of Yazd wrote a sweet and factual essay about
what had happened to her when the Revolutionary
Guards came to their house and took her beloved father
away to prison. She wrote of her visit to her father in that
prison, recalled the moment when they had heard that her
darling father had been shot to death as a martyr. Her

CHILDREN
essay was so moving, it brought tears to the eyes of the
teacher and the children in her class.
However, since she had used the word 'Baha'i' in the
essay, the teacher, though moved, was also annoyed. The
Baha'i girl should have known better. The teacher took
the essay to the headmistress.
The young girl was told, 'Your essay deserved to
receive the highest marks, but since you mentioned the
word "Baha'i" a few times, your essay must be with-
drawn.'
The girl replied: 'I was told to write about what had
happened to me this summer. This all happened to me.
Whatever I have written is the exact truth. My father was
killed because he was a Baha'i.'
In Zanjan, a city official seized one of the four sons of a
Baha'i family, and spread-eagled his body on the ground.
The young boy had said that his heart was ablaze with the
fire of his love for the Bab.
This illustrious leader of the city built a fire on that
young lad's chest, so that his breast might really taste
what it meant to be on 'fire'.
The boy had only to recant and he would be saved, he
was told.
As the fire grew hotter and more fierce, and the pain
more intense, he merely smiled at his persecutors, and
said, 'Do you think you can terrorize or frighten me into
being like you are?'
He died. The flames consumed his body through that
breast in which beat a heart of love for the Bab and His
Faith.
He could 'stand fast' because he knew what he was
dying for.
It is on this rock of belief with which no treasure in life
can compare, that the terrorists and Stone-Age torturers
of Iran will finally break their teeth.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Younger and younger children are being put to the test.
The youngest was five. He was preparing himself in the
kindergarten to be admitted into Grade 1 next year. He
already knew six prayers by heart, and a number of
extracts from the Baha'i writings. He was quite an
astonishing child. Well-behaved, intelligent, quick to
learn, and he recited what he had learned very eloquently.
When the Inspector from the Ministry of Education
came to the school, the teacher was eager to boast about
how successful he had beetl. in teaching these children in
his class; so, naturally, he called on his prize pupil to
recite the verses he had learned. His performance
astonished and delighted the visiting Inspector. As a final
effort, the teacher asked the boy to recite another poem,
one which began with the sentence, 'I am a Muslim child.'
The little boy gazed silently at his teacher without
uttering a word.
The teacher repeated his request. But the child still
remained silent. The teacher was surprised, and became
uneasy. He was embarrassed in front of the Inspector. He
could not understand why the boy, who was so excep-
tional in learning_and reciting poetry, should now remain
silent.
The teacher asked the little boy, 'Why don't you recite
the poem?'
The little boy said, 'Because I am not a Muslim child. I
am a Baha'i.'
The Inspector left the room in anger. He complained to
the headmaster who summoned the boy's mother to the
school. She was warned that this little boy should be
instructed not to talk about the Baha'i Faith to his
classmates.
When the mother found out what had happened, she
naturally told her five-year-old son that he should be wise
and careful. The boy, who had learned in the Baha'i
community about being brave and steadfast, could not
accept this. He replied to his mother: 'I am a Baha'i and I

CHILDREN
will always tell people that I am, and if they bother me I
will go to the nearest police station and complain.'
Poor little one! He was still to learn that for him, there is
no police station.
But learn it he will, and be stronger than ever, this five-
year-old spiritual child.
A Letter from Yazd
To conclude this chapter oo the Baha'i children of Iran, I
can do no better than off er you the following extracts
from a letter written from Y azd on November 3, 1981 -
after this book had supposedly been completed. It tells the
story simply, heroically, and far better than I ever could.
The writer was herself arrested and imprisoned a few
weeks later.
My dear Brother,
... I do not know where to begin, there is too much
to be written about. In these days of constant struggle
our children are in the vanguard. They always produce
wonders. What is transpiring here is exceptional.
Where were these heroes before? They must have
existed but it is only now that they are able to manifest
their spiritual potentialities, to reveal their precious
essence, to prove the validity of the spiritual training
they received from their families.
Most of our children, in different degrees, have now
been given opportunities in their schools to demon-
strate their heroism. In the Land of Ya [Y azd], the
home of the brave, opportunities abound. So far, over
100 of our children have been expelled from their
schools because they are Baha'is. Their dismissals,
which ordinarily one would expect would be the cause
of sadness, have produced in them a joy and vitality
which I cannot describe. Because of their response to
their dismissals, all Y azd is shaken. Our precious
children have shown such courage as to have caused all

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Y azd to wonder. It should be said that all these children
are among the very best students in the city. They
attained the highest marks, were known for their
exemplary conduct and were recognized as being
exceptionally talented and intelligent. This has given
rise to the first question among the people of Y azd:
'Why should the best be expelled?'
The second question in the minds of those who have
expelled them arises from the courage and persever-
ance of these young ones. Although they were dis-
missed from school in an atmosphere charged with
hatred and prejudice, our children have, with a sense of
pride and a consciousness of being related to the
followers of Baha'u'llah, collected their books and
school-bags with placid joy and left the school, smiling
and walking with a light step, while their non-Baha'i
school friends wept for them.
I have to interrupt this letter as the telephone is
nngmg.
(Later)
I have been informed that six members of the Local
Spiritual Assembly of Teheran have been arrested.
Never a dull moment! What strength is required to be
able to concentrate our thoughts and compose our
feelings!
I was writing about our children. The believers of
Y azd have told us that there are very few Baha'i
children in the city who are unhappy and cry - they are
those who as yet have not been expelled from the
schools.
The teachers, and even headmasters, are extremely
upset by the instruction from the Ministry to dismiss
Baha'i children. One headmaster decided to resign after
receiving the order to dismiss his Baha'i students, but
he was firmly warned against tendering his resignation.
However, on the day of the dismissal of the Baha'i

CHILDREN
15 l
students he absented himself from school, having
clearly stated that he had no wish to witness such an
unjust action.
(Later)
I have been interrupted by another phone call. A
husband and wife in Karaj have been executed by
firing-squad for their 'Zionist' activities. My thoughts
immediately go out to Mr and Mrs -
who are
imprisoned in Karaj. Is' this news true? Is it about
them? Until we can verify this report, what anxiety we
have to endure! The air is thick with rumours these
days, none of them good. God knows what consterna-
tion fills our minds until we are able to verify the truth
or falsehood of these rumours.
I'm sorry ... I was diverted again. This is what is
happening to our children:
On the appointed day the teacher asks the class
whether there are any Baha'is among the students. Our
children -
our patient, well-behaved, faithful and
steadfast children - stand up and with great pride and
courage introduce themselves as Baha'is. They are then
sent to the office of the headmaster. The teachers, and
sometimes the headmasters, are embarrassed and sad.
In the office of the headmaster the children are first
asked to deny their faith and continue their studies.
These requests are in many instances expressed with
love and concern, because the staff in the school really
like these distinguished and outstanding students and
do not want to lose them. But what they hear from
these children surprises them. The children announce
that they are Baha'is, that they personally decided to be
Baha'is, that they cannot lie and deny their faith, and
that they are proud of what they believe! At this point
the headmaster and teachers have no alternative but to
sign the order expelling them.
These children range in age from 7 to 17 or 18. It is a

A CRY FROM THE HEART
sight to see how cheerfully the Baha'i children leave the
school with no sense of shame, while their non-Baha'i
fellow students look on thoughtfully, some even weep-
ing. Disturbances occur in the classroom after the
Baha'i children leave, and challenging discussion takes
place between the remaining pupils and their teachers.
The children put questions until the end of the school
day and the discussion is carried out to the streets. The
non-Baha'i students invariably ask: 'Isn't it true that we
are supposed to have freedom of belief? What's wrong
with the Baha'i children - don't they worship God and
pray? Why are they being dismissed?' The children
carry their questions home. Their queries spread to all
parts of the city and are taken up in the streets and the
bazaars.
The parents of the dismissed Baha'i children -
themselves the essence of patience and steadfastness -
exclaim with pride: 'What we have failed to achieve,
our children are now achieving!' They praise the
children with candour and love. I doubt whether in the
history of any society such honour has been heaped
upon children of so tender an age. The parents remark:
'It is true that in the 138 years since the beginning of
our Faith we have endured many hardships, but we
have never been so successful as our children in
proclaiming to the masses of the people of Y azd the
exalted character of the Baha'i Revelation, nor have
our actions resulted, as have our children's, in creating
an atmosphere in which the Faith is being discussed so
openly among the people in the streets and bazaars.
Our persecuted children have succeeded in breaking
through the barrier of prejudice of the hard-hearted
people of this city.'
The parents go on to exclaim: 'The events of the past
have made us conservative and cautious; it is our
children who have changed the atmosphere.' ... This
change had its early beginnings last year when the

CHILDREN
martyrs shed their blood on the soil of Y azd. This
change cannot be measured by existing standards.
A programme of study has been arranged for our
children at home; they are learning with great speed
and progressing in all fields of knowledge. They will
surely surpass their fellow students who are still in
school. More important than this, we have promised
ourselves to help these children become so well versed
in the holy writings that each will become the envy of
scholars. There is no doubt that this will come to pass.
Let me tell you something about the adults. The
Baha'i men and women - particularly the women - are
facing tribulations with such equanimity that no
comparable example can be found even among the
legendary heroines of the past. These women are in fact
creating new legends through their patience, steadfast-
ness, love and detachment. They have conquered the
hearts of everyone and won the praises of all. The
forces of hatred have been vanquished by the power of
their faith. When they are looted of their property,
furniture and belongings, they part with them as they
would with outworn dolls and playthings, looking on as
though they were mere spectators. They shower love
upon those who come to take away their belongings as
might an affectionate and indulgent parent who with a
smile will give a worthless toy or plaything to a naughty
child. It appears that they even enjoy the naughtiness of
these children.
Such behaviour has greatly influenced the hearts of
the looters who are not great in number. Mr K - that
heartless man who is the leader of those who are
executing the Baha'is and confiscating their properties,
and whose main task is to uproot the Faith in Yazd - is
often seen entering the homes of the Baha'is, knocking
upon their doors at any hour of the day or night. He has
become such a familiar figure that the Baha'is jest with
him, saying, 'You have become one of us!' He even

A CRY FROM THE HEART
knows the nicknames of the Baha'i children. If he does
not make an appearance for some time the Baha'is tell
him they miss him. Although Mr K comes to take away
their property or to send their loved ones to prison, they
are pleasant to him, joke with him, inquire about his
health. They even tell him that one day he should
become a Baha'i in order to understand the significance
of what he is now doing .
. . . The Baha'is of Yazd say that this unfeeling man,
Mr K, is treated by them as a member of the family.
When he comes to seize their furniture the young men
of the family help him carry out the heavier pieces;
when he arrives they invite him to join them at the table
and give him sweets, fruits, even meals. After he has
eaten he goes around the house and selects the
furniture he wants to take away. If he does not have a
vehicle available he gestures toward the selected
articles of furniture and tells the owner, 'These are my
trust with you; keep them safely until I return.' He
sometimes even proposes that the family might buy
back the furniture from him! The behaviour of the
long-suffering Baha'is in these appalling circumstances
is unprecedented. They recognize that they are indeed
giving away worthless dolls, as to an ignorant child.
The Baha'is whose homes have been confiscated do
not leave the city but move to a small dwelling-place,
wherever they can find refuge ... Almost all the Baha'i
men have been required to leave the city and this has
provided the children, youth, and women an opportu-
nity to prove their courage and valour. How proud we
are of them! What a creation has Baha'u'llah raised up!
Such conduct has been unheard of, even in legends.
When the Baha'is of Y azd themselves relate these
events they express amazement at the change in
themselves. The people of Yazd have the reputation of
being economical and thrifty; it is said that two families
of Y azd could fight between themselves over possession

CHILDREN
of a valueless stick of wood. But look at them now!
They have given up everything to show their love for
Baha'u'llah. When one extends sympathy to them they
express surprise, remarking that what they have parted
with is worthless. They do not even denounce the
thieves and looters when ref erring to them.
I cannot overlook mentioning a mother and daughter
who are in prison - they are examples. The daughter is
60 years old and the mother is over 80. The fact of
imprisoning such elderly innocent women is in itself
very strange, but it has been done. These women are
Baha'is of Zoroastrian background. All their posses-
sions were confiscated and they are now in the women's
prison with over 100 prisoners of all kinds.
A few months ago a release order was issued for the
mother, but she refused to leave unless her daughter
was also released; so they remained in prison. Only ten
days ago the authorities at last gave permission for
them to receive occasional visitors.
Baha'i visitors have witnessed the old woman em-
bracing and demonstrating affection to the police-
woman, before she would come forward to meet her
visitors. During the course of the visit the old woman
noticed a young male guard who was supposed to
control the visitors. In her special Parsi-Y azdi accent
she maternally addressed complimentary remarks to
him with such obvious love and sincerity that the
young man was visibly uncomfortable and ashamed.
She remarked to her visitors, 'I always thought that
mothers could really love only their own children, but I
have come to feel genuine love for these young men
who are on duty.' The young guard had nothing to say,
but stood with bowed head.
The fire of sincere love is melting the ice of hatred.
Then with remarkable candour this old woman, more
than 80 years of age, said to her visitors, 'Tell
everybody that Baha'u'llah has enabled me to perform

A CRY FROM THE HEART
miracles. Tell them that the Baha'i prayers which I
copy out for the sick ones in this prison cause them to
become cured.' She related how one of the guards
sought her out excitedly to tell her his story. 'I was
searching for you,' he said. 'I wanted to tell you that the
prayers you wrote out for me and my wife a year ago
have been answered and our wish to have a baby is
fulfilled. This has made it unnecessary for me to
divorce my wife for her inability to conceive a child.'
In the evenings the women prisoners crowd together
around the mother and daughter and ask them to tell
them stories and speak to them. They speak most
beautifully and with such a sweet accent that nobody
wants to go to sleep. Even the guards do not object.
When Sarafraz, the mother, has a visitor, she begs
them to bring fruit from her orchard in order to make a
feast for the prisoners. The old woman does not know
that her orchard and other properties have been
confiscated. But the visitors know what to do. They
purchase large quantities of fruit so she can provide
hospitality to her fellow prisoners. Where have you
heard stories like this?
Glad tidings! Glad tidings! The climate of this city in
the midst of the desert is changed and the perfume of
the love of God has filled all comers. In my next letter I
will write you more such stories - if I am still alive, or
free ...

The Banner of Islam
The Mirrors of God
If anyone wants to know exactly how a Baha'i feels about
Islam and Muhammad, there is a very simple direct way
to show this. It cannot be misunderstood and it cannot be
misrepresented.
You will see this from the drawing on the next page. It
is based upon the words of Baha'u'llah in His Book of
Certitude, written to bring about an understanding and
appreciation of the oneness of all religions.
This one drawing alone should banish forever any
mistaken ideas any sincere Muslim might have about the
love and respect each Baha'i, without exception, feels for
Islam, its Prophet, and its Holy Book.
The drawing indicates only four of the great Messengers
of God. For the sake of simplicity and brevity, we have
mentioned only Moses, Christ, Muhammad and Baha'u'-
llah, but it is equally true for all God's Messengers. The
drawing should, of course, include the Founders of all the
great revealed religions: Moses, Krishna, Zoroaster,
Buddha,
Christ,
Muhammad,
the
Bab, Baha'u' -
llah - all the great Messengers of God without exception.
Since Baha'is love Baha'u'llah, they must clearly love
Muhammad as well. The drawing leaves no doubt. If they
do not love Muhammad, they just as clearly do not love
Baha'u'llah.

Earth

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
It is that simple, that true, and that obvious.
In reality, if they lack this same unquestioned love for
any one of these great Messengers of God, they are not
Baha'is at all. There would be no need for their
persecutors to try to make them say: 'We are not Baha'is',
for in truth, they would not be.
The drawing also shows clearly why it is both
impossible and unthinkable for Baha'is to bend before the
cruel torture and persecutions besetting them in Iran, and
agree to give up the Baha'i Faith and become Muslims. It
shows unmistakably how foolish such a demand really is.
By such a recantation, they would be living a lie, and
denying everything that Muhammad Himself stood for.
They would be denying the entire Plan of God for man.
Thus, you can see why the Baha'is in Iran refuse to give
up their belief in Baha'u'llah. To do so would mean that
they would have to give up their belief in all God's
Messengers. In truth, it would mean giving up belief in
God Himself, the Sun which shines in all these Mirrors.
By denying the Sunlight in one Mirror, they would be
denying the Sun.
Nothing could be plainer than this.
How beautiful and exciting the Oneness of God and all
his religions becomes when the truth is once made known.
These, of course, are not my explanations. They are
from the Founder of the Baha'i Faith, Baha'u'llah.
One of the most important things the Promised One of
all religions would do in the last days, would be to 'unseal
the meaning of the Holy Books' and make them
understandable to all mankind.*
• Baha'u'llah's Book of Certitude (Kittib-i-iqan) does exactly this. It
answers those questions which have for so long troubled and divided
religions, questions concerning Reincarnation, the story of Creation,
Adam and Eve, Good and Evil, Heaven and Hell, the Trinity, the
Eucharist, Confession, the Day of Judgment, the End of the world, and
dozens more. It is the Book described by the prophet Daniel which
would break 'the seals' of those 'words' destined to remain 'closed up'
until the 'time of the end'. It answers with beauty and clarity all the
problems that have separated the religions of the world. It has been
called a 'matchless utterance'.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
The Oneness of Religions
Let us look more closely at the proof of the oneness of all
religions as given in that one simple drawing.
God is like the sun. The sun brings physical light to the
world. Without that sunlight, everything on earth would
perish.
God is the spiritual Sun. He brings spiritual Light to
men's hearts. Without that special Light, men would
perish spiritually.
The Messengers of God are like Pure Mirrors. They
reflect God's Light upon all humanity, upon the entire
world. The five little human figures in the drawing
represent symbolically the five races of mankind.
The physical sun does not come down to earth, it sends
its rays. In like manner, the spiritual Sun, God, does not
come down to earth. He sends His Messengers, these Pure
Mirrors of His perfections and virtues. They are the Rays
of His Sun of Truth.
These Messengers of God, these Pure Mirrors, are the
Light and Guidance of the entire world. Just as the rays of
the physical sun sustain and develop all physical life on
the planet, in like manner, the Spiritual Rays of the
Spiritual Sun sustain and develop all spiritual life in the
human race.
The physical sun doesn't appear once and never again.
It rises and sets numberless times, and each of its
appearances is called by a different name and continues
the work it did before. Sunday, Monday, Tuesday; April,
May, June; Spring, Summer, Autumn. It is always the
same sun.
The spiritual Sun appears to men in like manner. It
shines forth from a different Mirror, called by a different
name: Moses, Jesus, Muhammad, Krishna, Buddha, the
Bab, Baha'u'llah. It is always the same Sun.
Nothing could be plainer once we have seen the answer

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
given to us by Baha'u'llah in His explanation of the Suns
and the Mirrors.
The answers which Baha'u'llah has given to the other
puzzling questions that have divided and separated the
religions of the world are equally clear and self-evident.
That love will never alter
Now look at the second drawing (p. 162). It is a close-up
of one section of the more detailed drawing shown earlier.
It will concentrate our understanding even more clearly
on the fundamental love and reverence that fills every
Baha'i heart the world over in its remembrance of
Baha'u'llah, Founder of the Baha'i Faith, and Muham-
mad, Founder of Islam.
This drawing could just as easily be the Mirrors of
Christ and Baha'u'llah, Moses and Baha'u'/lah, Buddha
and Baha'u'/lah, or for that matter Moses and Christ, etc.,
for the basic principle holds true of all the great
Messengers of God, and Their relationship to each other
and to God.
They all share the same true Sunlight of God and reflect
through Their teachings that same Sunlight of Truth upon
the same mankind.
Each One of these Mirrors, Messengers of God, is
closely and inseparably linked to each other Messenger of
God, since They are all part of His one great redemptive
scheme for mankind.
The love which every Baha'i has for Muhammad,
Moses, Buddha, Christ - all these great Spiritual World
Educators of humanity - is not just a casual love, respect,
and affection such as we have for an admired but distant
friend or relative. It is a soul-inspiring, heart-warming
love which is touched by the fire of God's inspiration. As
the drawing shows, this love is in reality love for God,
through His Messenger. Therefore, it is a deep-seated,

(1844
Earth
The relationship
of Muhammad
and Baha'u 'llah as Messengers
of God

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
sacred reverence, a consecrated devotion to every Messen-
ger, every Mirror of God's Light and Truth.
This love, once understood, creates eagerness and
desire to serve Him. It generates a desire to teach which
inflamed the Apostles of Christ and set ablaze the hearts
of the followers of all religions. It made them eager to
share the wonder and excitement of eternal truth with
everyone they met. It is this feeling of being 'on fire' with
the love of God that has sent Baha'i pioneers and teachers
to over one hundred thousarld places in the world.
• So inspiring, so soul-uplifting, and all-consuming is this
love, that the early believers in every great Messenger and
Mirror of God are prepared to give their lives if necessary,
for this wonderful, universal, thrilling belief. They have
done so in the past. They are doing so today in Iran.
To deny Muhammad, or any Messenger of God, or to
belittle Him, His Book, or His Religion would be
unthinkable to a Baha'i. It would be the same as denying
Baha'u'llah. It would be betraying some of the most
fundamental of all Baha'i principles:
The Oneness of God, the Oneness of Religion, and the
Oneness of all His Messengers.
To be an enemy of Islam and Muhammad, a Baha'i
would have to be an enemy of Baha'u'llah and the Baha'i
Faith, an enemy of every religion on the face of the earth.
In fact, an enemy of God Himself and of His Holy Word.
Impossible!
You can see in one glance at the drawings of those
Mirrors and the Sun, why the Baha'is in Iran could never
entertain such an idea as a denial of their Faith. It would
mean disgracing and dishonouring not only their own
Messenger of God, Baha'u'llah, but Muhammad and all
God's Messengers as well.
The Baha'is' love for Baha'u'llah and Muhammad and
every Messenger of God will never alter and will never
fade. You can see the reason why. You can also see why
they feel honoured to be chosen to die for their Faith. We

A CRY FROM THE HEART
realize, at last, that they are not fanatical in their belief at
all. They are logical and clear in the actions they take,
consumed by a deep, abiding love for God and His
Messengers.
When the persecutors in Iran fail to make a Baha'i
recant and say, 'I am not a Baha'i', and kill him for his
refusal, that Baha'i becomes a special, unique and
wonderful new breed of martyr.
He or she is dying not only for Baha'u'llah, but for
Muhammad as well. Those martyrs in Iran today are
dying, as the Suns and Mirrors tell us, for every
Messenger of God and for every religion, including yours.
How foolish the charge now appears that the Baha'i
Faith could ever be an enemy of Islam. Although our
story of 'The Banner of Islam' has hardly begun, we can
already safely say:
Mark the charge: Refuted.
They are identical!
The refutation is devastatingly clear.
It so completely, and so thoroughly, demolishes those
'false charges' against my Baha'i brothers and sisters in
Iran, that I am tempted, because of the slang-nature of
my profession as a sportscaster, as well as my feeling of
pure joy, to say to the present regime in Iran:
'Play that on your piano!'
I know! The subject is far too serious and too dreadful
to be flippant about. I did promise you that the false
charges would not only be refuted, but would be
demolished, so perhaps you can forgive my enthusiasm.
Let us continue with the demolition of this most false of
all the accusations made against the Baha'i Faith, for this
fraudulent charge, 'enemy of Islam', lies at the heart of
almost all the attacks.
Look once again at the original drawing. No, better

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
still, this time go outside into the real sunlight and do it
yourself, live.
Humour me. Try it. Please.
All you need are two mirrors and a few minutes of your
time. The rewards may be eternal. Ready?
All right. Now hold up the two mirrors, one in each
hand. Let the sunlight reflect in each mirror as you look at
them.
Now, over one mirror write: Muhammad. Over the
second mirror, write: Baha'u'llah. It will be easier, of
course, if you have a friend to hold up the two mirrors for
you. I promise you both that it will be worth the trouble.
Have your friend hold up the two mirrors so that you
can seen the sun reflected in each mirror at the same time.
Now you have three suns. One in each mirror, and the
third and real sun still in the heavens. The suns in the two
mirrors are a reflection of that real sun in the sky.
That's the way it is with God and His religion.
God (the Sun) remains alone in the heavens. Single,
alone, unknowable, unfathomable, beyond our definition
and description. Even to use the word He in connection
with this great primal Force and Power borders on the
sacrilegious, but we are obliged to use words to convey
our thoughts, however inadequate or inexact.
Still, it is essential that we understand that God is
infinite, and incomprehensible to finite man.
Even so, just as we know the physical sun by its rays,
we know the Unknowable God by His Mirrors, His
Messengers, by the Light, the virtues, the attributes and
qualities which we see reflected to us on this earthly plane
by these Pure Mirrors.
They are His (God's) Rays of Truth.
We are now outside once again, looking at these two
mirrors with the sunlight reflected in each one.
Now, you tell me, while you are looking at those two
identical mirrors, with the same sun shining in each one
of them, which mirror do you think is better? Which is

A CRY FROM THE HEART
greater? Which mirror has more light? Which is more
beautiful? Which sunlight do you prefer? Which do you
love more? The mirror with the sunlight named Baha'u'-
llah? Or the mirror with the sunlight of Muhammad?
Of course! They're identical.
You have to love them equally. How could you do
otherwise? There is no difference between them whatso-
ever.
In order to be practical, am) to carry out the work of
God in every age, and to use the Sunlight which we are
given when our Messenger of God comes, we not only
give our love and allegiance to that Mirror, that Messen-
ger of God Who appears in our time, we also arise and
serve Him with all our hearts.
We have no other choice. It is the Light and Truth for
that time in history.
We are ready to die for Him and His Truth, and His
followers have done so in every age. Every martyr in his
day was unique, and a new breed of martyr, and had
nothing in common with those being killed in that same
age by the violence of the world around them.
So it is in Iran today, and it is of significance and
importance to all of us.
We use and need the sunlight of Friday, Saturday or
Sunday because it is the only light available to us on those
days. But Friday people do not hate or refuse to recognize
the sunlight of Saturday when it comes, or they would be
living forever on Friday. Nor do Saturday people refuse
to accept the sunlight of Sunday when Saturday has gone.
You know the sun will come up again on Sunday, but if
you reject it, or fail to recognize it, or to take advantage of
its light and heat and life-giving power, you will be in the
darkness of a day that has passed.
You will thus be deprived of all future light and life
and hope. You will be missing the Sunlight of the new
Day, the Source of all the spiritual survival on the planet

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
in that Day. It has always been so in this great,
progressive, religious scheme of God for man.
This is what Prophecy and the Holy Books are all
about. Each Scripture has foretold the One that would
come in the future with the new Day of God.
Therefore, if we accept Friday but deny Saturday, or
accept Saturday but deny Sunday, it is very clear that we
have given our allegiance to the name on the Mirror, and
not to the Light that shines within it. We have remem-
bered the Messenger, but have forgotten His Message and
His Promise.
No mistake could be more tragic for mankind!
Now you know what has happened to the fanatics in
Iran. They have drawn a curtain across the Face of God!
If they kill because of it, it is fanaticism. It has nothing
whatsoever to do with the 'falseness' of the ones they are
killing. It has only to do with their own ignorance of the
great Day in which they are living.
It is not the Baha'i community oflran that is the enemy
of Islam!
It is not the last!
Just as the charge that the Baha'is are enemies oflslam is
at the heart of all the false charges, baseless accusations,
and fraudulent misrepresentations made in Iran against
the Baha'i Faith, in like manner this episode, 'The Banner
of Islam' is at the heart of all the refutation.
Therefore, so that the idea will be forever imprinted in
our minds, that no people on earth have more love and
respect for Muhammad and Islam than the Baha'is all
over the world, (including Iran), let it be known:
In every Baha'i House of Worship, in every continent,
the words of Muhammad and the Koran are honoured
and revered, together with the teachings of Moses, Christ,
Buddha, and the Founders of all the great religions.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Not only is the Baha'i Faith not an enemy oflslam and
its Prophet, Muhammad, but Baha'is are among His
greatest supporters, and have raised the glory of His
Name in every part of the world. They have honoured
and praised the Apostle of God, as they have honoured
and praised the Messenger of every great Religion of
God.
One of the most important and significant things that
Baha'u'llah and the Baha'i Faith have done for all
religions, is to make it clear that religion itself is
progressive and continuous, always unfolding a greater
measure of truth in every age.
No religion is exclusive and final.
There is no exclusive salvation for the Jew, the
Christian, the Buddhist, the Muslim, the Baha'i, or for
any single religion. God is not in competition with
Himself.
For the first time in the history of religion, the teachers
of the Baha'i Faith make it clear that their own religion is
not the last outpouring of Truth from God. Neither their
religion nor their Messenger is the last and final Word of
Truth which God will shower upon mankind.
This is a refreshing and exciting concept in religion.
Baha'u'llah's words prevent this dreadful scourge of
exclusivity and finality from ever entering into religion
again.
As mankind progresses, and his spiritual and material
guidance stand in need of further outpouring of truth
from that same Life-Giving Source - God, at such a time
in history another Mirror, another Messenger of God will
appear. He will bring the same One Light and Power
from God, but His Message will be adapted and fitted to
the needs of the Day in which He appears.
It is the Age and the Day in which a Messenger of God
appears that is different, not the Messenger Himself. They
are all One and the same.
While it is true that we are entering the Day of the

THE BANNER
OF ISLAM
coming of age of humanity, the Day of the One Fold and
One Shepherd, the time of the end, the last days, the Day
of the eagerly-expected, long-awaited Christ-promised
Kingdom of God on earth - while all this is true, it still
does not mean, in spite of the majesty and glory of this
present Age, that progressive revelation has ended, or that
the continuous outpouring of Truth from God through
His Messengers is over.
Never!
It is not the end, but in reality only the beginning. The
most wonderful and exciting part lies ahead. The Pro-
phetic Cycle leading up to this wondrous Day, a Day
promised in every sacred Scripture of every great past
religion, has ended. The Cycle of Fulfilment has begun.
This is that wondrous Day that every Prophet has
talked about. It has come at last, in our time. It is here! It
has begun! And people are dying for it in Iran.
We, and all the world, should be overjoyed and thrilled
that it finally has come and is being started on its way.
It was in that room in His House in Shiraz that the Bab
announced this wondrous Day, releasing thereby a new
and wonderful 'spiritual force' into the world. From this
we can begin to understand what a calamitous tragedy
and terrible crime it was against all society, not just
against the Baha'i community in Iran, when that Holy
House, that symbol of hope for the peoples of all nations,
races and religions and for generations as yet unborn, was
destroyed.
We also know why it will be restored to stand again in
all its glory and beauty, no matter what the enemies of the
Baha'i Faith in Iran may do, either now or in the future.
This is yet another reason why those Baha'is who are
dying today in Iran are a new breed of martyrs. They are
giving their lives for all mankind, and for its future,
willingly, enthusiastically and courageously.
Hats off!
Another marvellous thing can be seen from that

A CRY FROM THE HEART
drawing. The Sun and the Mirrors of God will go on
forever. The Baha'i Faith is not final, not exclusive, not
the last stage of this grand redemptive scheme of God for
man. It is not the last! The Baha'i Faith is the Message,
and Baha'u'llah is the Messenger, for this Day in the
affairs of mankind. Not forever.
Baha'u'llah has brought the Laws, the Teachings, the
Institutions, and above all, the Spirit, to establish and
maintain a lasting peace among nations. He has come to
raise up that world civilization which all mankind has
long awaited and eagerly anticipated, the 'Christ-prom-
ised Kingdom of God on earth'.
The Baha'i Faith accepts the Divine origin and
inspiration of all those great religions of the past, as well
as those that will come in the future.
Who wouldn't be willing to die for that!

A New Breed of Martyrs
Let's face it.
I shall never finish this book as long as I can be reached
by phone, cable, telex or automobile. My gardener's
cottage, with its picture window looking down on the old
mill and the waterfall here in Canada, has become a
'command post' for constant uninterrupted dispatches
from the front. I have already revised the manuscript
several times. There is no end to it. The persecutions
continue both in intensity and savagery.
My wife, Marguerite, who made the many journeys in
Iran with me, is waiting for me to join her in Africa.
Unless I pull out the phone and refuse to answer the
doorbell, it doesn't look as though I'll have the chance.
This book was properly titled A Cry from the Heart.
Little did I know when I began to write it that, from the
beginning to the end, my own heart would be stabbed
with the pain of cablegram after cablegram, phone call
after phone call, letter after letter, messenger after
messenger, each one conveying the sad news of a fresh
tragedy.
I have decided to go back to Africa, and to finish the
book there, come what may.
*
*
*

A CRY FROM THE HEART
I am now in Africa, and it is from this 'Continent of Light'
that I have brought my book to an end with these final
pages.
Unfortunately, Africa is Canada. Nothing has changed.
The red river of sacrifice continues to stain the sands of
Iran.
Even at this late date, the persecutors in Iran feel
confident that they can hide their genocidal plot from the
world. They hope to avoid a replay of the grave trouble
and shame with which they were branded by the United
Nations and the various governments of the world and
the leaders of men back in 1955.
World opinion does cut down their options.
The masquerade is over I
It has been a rewarding experience to write this book, and
to have the chance, however limited, to fight back.
Not with guns, knives, stones and clubs, which are the
favourite weapons of the enemies of the Baha'i Faith in
Iran, but with words. Baha'is, as you know by now, are
peace-loving, law-abiding and non-violent.
So, instead, I used a few violent words.
Words such as 'shame' and 'dishonour', and perhaps
the most violent word of all:
Truth!'
That always puts the liars on the run.
I took the advice of their own wonderful Prophet, the
Apostle of God, Muhammad, when I did this.
Muhammad, whom they say the Baha'i community in
Iran is against, is really on the side of these innocent
Baha'i victims.
Any impartial observer would know that.
The Apostle of God, Muhammad, commands: 'Let
there be no compulsion in religion.' (Koran 2:257)
'Deny your faith,' the masked executioners demand.

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
'Never.'
'Just say you are not Baha'is, and I will save your lives.'
'Never!'
The executioners fire to kill. Remember Y azd and the
other cities.
The Apostle of God, Muhammad, warned them:
What I wilt thou compel men to become
believers? No soul can believe but by the
permission of God: and he shall lay his
wrath on those who will not understand
(Koran 10:99-I 00)
Throughout this book, I have followed the advice of
their Prophet Muhammad, whom they, not the Baha'is,
have so shamefully disgraced by their conduct. The
Apostle of God declared:
Nay, we will hurl the truth at falsehood, and
it shall smite it, and lo I it shall vanish.
(Koran 21:18)
Our Cry from the Heart has done just that.
We have refuted every false charge, every baseless
accusation, and every fraudulent misrepresentation made
against the Baha'is in Iran.
They are not only refuted, but, as promised, demol-
ished. It was my intention from the beginning to shoot
down in flames the false accusers - non-violently, of
course - with the truth about their obvious falsehoods.
For them, as far as world opinion goes, the masquerade
is over!
There remains only my own deep feeling that I have
not yet fulfilled the entire purpose of this book. It will not
be complete until I have shared with you my thoughts on
the spectre now haunting our society - the concern every
man feels about the immediate survival of the entire
human race - and the part played in this planetary
tragedy by the Baha'i martyrs of Iran.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Whose shadow is it that suddenly and unexpectedly
appears on the radar screens of our countries?
Is it a friend? Or an enemy?
Each time we listen to the radio, watch television, or
read the newspapers about the latest summit conference
where the leaders of all nations have gathered for their
crisis deliberation, we know those consultations could
prove 'terminal' to our civilization.
We wonder as we gaze at the doors behind which they
are trying to prevent a world catastrophe:
Who will come out? The lady or the tiger?
The remarkable and generally unknown role played by
those seemingly insignificant and unimportant martyrs,
dying almost every day in nearly every part of Iran, is
both germane and vital to our own survival. What is
happening to them concerns everything that is happening
in the world.
I would be gravely remiss if I failed to share with you
this astonishing, even incredible story. It has a message of
hope and encouragement for every sad and disillusioned
soul who is bewildered by the dreadful things taking place
all around us today.
Although these martyrs are staining the sands of Iran
red with their blood, they are, at the same time,
nourishing the soil of a special Tree of Life, whose
branches are already beginning to bring healing to the
whole of humankind. This story gives meaning to their
death and sacrifice, and in place of sorrow, you will find
your heart gladdened with good news for a change.
The following personal and intimate thoughts are
perhaps by far the most important and significant pages
of this entire book.
The real pollution
What is it that makes the martyrdom of these Baha'i

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
friends of mine in Iran so different? Why should the
world care whether they live or die? Apart, that is, from
the natural sorrow and sympathy all decent human beings
feel who deplore killing, persecution, and violence of any
kind.
After all, people are being killed all over the world
these days. Violence and murder surround us every day of
our lives. In the newspapers, on radio and television, we
see and hear the dreadful things happening to our fellow
human beings.
Since six million innocent Jews died so tragically and
so wrongly in the murder-chambers of Nazi Germany,
martyrdom has become almost an empty phrase.
People, unfortunately, have become inured to killing.
They shut themselves off. They are weary of reading,
hearing, and being told stories about more killings, more
violence and death.
So why should the world be concerned about, or
involved in, the martyrdoms of a few thousand Baha'is in
Iran over the past years?
It is difficult for people to believe when first they hear
it, that the murders committed by the terrorists of Iran are
not only crimes against the Baha'i community, but also
crimes against society. It is not a local tragedy that is
taking place behind that black-bordered death-map of
Iran, but a world calamity.
Every passing day, MAN is becoming one of the most
seriously 'endangered species' in the world. His chances
of survival are becoming less and less. He is being
threatened increasingly from every side.
The nuclear bombs, the multi-warhead intercontinen-
tal missiles with their nose-cones of death, plus all the
other terrible weapons of war which he, man himself, has
devised, might easily vaporize and obliterate both the
fashioner and all his cities one of these days, taking most
of the world, including us, with him.
In the face of such an inexcusable, horrifying, self-

A CRY FROM THE HEART
inflicted genocide, the extermination of a small religious
minority in Iran would seem to be of no great signifi-
cance.
It might not be so important were it not that this
religious minority in Iran may be the only available
source of spiritual 'fire power' in the world today, which is
capable of rescuing mankind from the apparently certain
destruction now facing it.
This religious minority has already proved, incredible
as it may seem, that it indeed does have this spiritual
power. At best, it could mitigate the approaching catas-
trophe if used properly. At the very worst, it can help
some small remnant of society to survive the world-wide
devastation which now threatens to engulf us all -
inevitably unless something marvellous and miraculous
happens soon.
To expect such a fantastic accomplishment from a
minority religious community, being killed right and left
at the will of their enemies, sounds a little like setting a
mouse to drive the formidable elephant from the field!
Yet, this is exactly what this Baha'i community has
been doing for the past century and a half. In spite of the
combined forces of the government, the army, the
religious leaders, and the people of Iran, who have tried
unsuccessfully to exterminate and obliterate them from
the face of the earth, the Baha'is have not only survived,
but have spread their message of love and unity to over
one hundred thousand places in the world. It all began
right there in Iran, and the struggle for survival - not of
the Baha'i community, but of the human race - continues
as the gallant soldiers fall in battle.
Anyone truly conversant with the sacred Scriptures of
the world would not be surprised at all. It is not the plan
of man, but the Plan of God. This is exactly what has
been promised to the world for this day in all the Holy
Books.
I know that such a religious concept immediately puts

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
many people off. They lose all interest. However, when it
is the 'last train out of Madrid' for all humanity, perhaps a
little patience will bear wondrous fruit. We've tried man's
answers and solutions. Where has that got us? Right
where we stand now. On the brink of an awesome abyss.
Why not try God's answer? Or, at least satisfy ourselves
whether or not it is God's answer?
The 'spiritual fire power' we are talking about is a
down-to-earth, every day, run-of-the-mill miracle.
The real pollution the world faces is not in the smog
over our cities, not in the mercury, oil-spills, and other
poisons to be found in our oceans, lakes and streams, not
even in the cancer-causing additives in the food we eat,
the liquids we drink, the insufficiently tested drugs we
take with their terrifying side-effects. All these are
nothing compared to the real pollution.
That pollution is in the hearts of men.
The hatreds, the prejudices, the greed, the corruption
and graft, the unbridled pursuit of possessions, the desire
for material things at any cost, these are the animal-like
qualities which have always destroyed individuals, fami-
lies, states, nations and civilizations. A decadent, over-
powering, overwhelming, cancerous materialism now has
all mankind in its iron grasp, and will not let go.
It will take a spiritual remedy to cure all that. Nothing
else has, or we wouldn't be in all this trouble.
Fanaticism has no place in the Baha'i Faith. Baha'is are
expected to live a full, rich, wonderful life, experiencing
its joy and wonder and awe, but always remembering
their primary responsibilities to God and their fellow
men.
When mankind forgets these responsibilities, he uses
selfishly and to his own danger the great material,
physical, and scientific gains the human mind has created.
The proper use of these blessings depends on the heart
and conscience of man. He can use these wonders to heal
or to destroy.

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
That is the crisis.
Until this real pollution of hate, prejudice and greed in
the heart of man is removed, our civilization will only
continue its downward plunge toward that awesome
abyss of death ahead.
Where can man tum for help?
Many thinking people are now beginning to wonder if
perhaps we haven't paid too dearly for these material
gains of ours, gains which, in one moment of caprice on
the part of the world's leaders, could be swept away,
leaving the world in ashes.
Visionless and unshepherded on a world scale, man in
his plight proclaims his spiritual bankruptcy. So where
can he tum for help in this planetary crisis?
Where is his ultimate hope?
Anything less than planetary is doomed to failure
In order to appreciate fully, and not to be too shocked at
the concept of a small religious minority having the
'spiritual fire power' to come to the aid of a civilization
and society in despair, it is necessary for us to examine the
world at large and see if we can find any other source,
anywhere, which can meet the crying needs of this
afflicted world.
Let us examine every major possible hope the world
can offer before contemplating such an apparently
unlikely possibility.
Where else is our hope?
Can Science save us? Government? Politics? The
United Nations? Education? Economics? Religion?
Which?
These are all we have.
Where among them can we hope to find a vision and a
power vital and strong enough to rescue the world from
an obvious onrushing, all-encompassing disaster?

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
There must be some way out.
Let us try each hope we can find, for the time is critical,
and the need is desperate. We must find that way out, or
perish.
Therefore, which of these 'last-ditch' hopes of the world
shall we choose?
Science?
Science is neither good nor bad. It is neutral. It
diminishes the death-rate of individuals on one hand by
perfecting a wonder drug, a new serum, or open-heart
surgery, and then, on the other hand, this same Science
can destroy multitudes by fashioning nuclear weapons.
Science can be used for either constructive or destruc-
tive purposes. It depends upon the moral conscience of
the men who use it. Again we come back to that
inescapable real pollution in the hearts of men.
Science is an instrument, not an operator. Science is a
ship, not the Captain. So it can never be the Master-Pilot
of our hopes. It will never be able to guide us safely into
the harbour of survival until we learn to use it properly.
• What next?
Politics?
Which party? Of which country? Of a house or a planet
divided?
Politics has been called the 'degenerate son' of an
'illustrious father', Statesmanship. In spite of many noble
public servants and excellent politicians, who do en-
deavour to uphold the honour and value of politics, this
corrupted son of a splendid father has become a wastrel,
who is now too often given over to corruption, graft,
policy, expediency, and the preservation of his own
position and prestige at the expense of the well-being of
both his party and his fellow men.
Politics too many times has abandoned virtue, and has
forsaken its primary and vital role in building a safe
refuge for all the peoples of the world while preserving
the rights, prestige and dignity of each country.

A CRY
FROM
THE
HEART
Politics these days is generally a mortally sick and
dying patient and not an administering doctor at all.
Politics has clearly demonstrated that it is not our Master
Physician and the Healer of our ills.
Government?
Which?
Democratic? Republican? Capitalistic? Communistic?
Dictatorship? And all the other varieties?
Which?
Almost every government has much that is of value,
much that is heroic, and a good measure that is quite
wonderful.
Some governments certainly seem preferable to others.
But it all depends on who is doing the preferring.
Different governments for different people. All sincere.
The choice of the best government often depends upon
the circumstances and geography of a man or woman's
birth and upbringing.
Unfortunately for mankind, there is no one single
government in the entire world at the present time which
has so captured the imagination, the devotion, and the
allegiance of all the other nations of the world, that
peoples everywhere are ready and willing to set aside
their lesser loyalties in order to follow such an inspired
leadership.
Some governments gave promise of being such world
leaders in their early days. The lustre was lost with the
passing of time. Governments became partisan instead of
impartial, competitive instead of co-operative. In place of
highways and open gates, they built hating-walls. The
crises of our divided world deepened.
The world moved away from, rather than toward,
unity.
Any plan that is less than planetary in this age is
doomed to failure. Sectarian, limited viewpoints are
meaningless in an age where world unity is essential for
survival.

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
The governments of the world have still neither learned
nor accepted this vital global lesson.
Government alone cannot rescue us.
Where else can man tum?
His options are diminishing rapidly.
Economics?
Is there an Economic Plan that can rescue and save the
world?
This area is hardly worth exploring, for the bitter truth
is that a wholesome system of economics is the result of a
civilization, not the cause of it.
In order to have a wholesome economy, we must first
create the social relationships which make co-operation
on a planetary scale possible. We must have this
international co-operative effort, everywhere, if we are to
succeed.
If a family will not live together in love, harmony and
co-operation, the income required to support it becomes
double, treble, often quadruple what the united family
would require.
This is equally true of the family of nations.
No member of a loving family would live in comfort
and luxury in one room of the house while the other
members were hungry, ill, abandoned and forgotten in
another room.
This should also be true of the house of Nations, the
planet on which we live.
Yet, we do live in that cruel and heartless manner, don't
we?
As nations.
If we hope to solve the economic problems of the
world, we must first set about healing the social relation-
ships which now prevent us from becoming such a
concerned family of nations.
We must somehow achieve a world-wide, close and
loving co-operative spirit, one that will inspire us to pour
out our resources for those things which will bring about a

A CRY FROM THE HEART
life-sustaining, hope-creating standard of living for all
mankind. A world of hope for all our brothers and sisters,
everywhere on earth. For we are that to each other, and
we must treat each other as if we were all part of one great
family.
We have the resources, we have the food, we have in
abundance the material possessions needed for all hu-
manity.
We even have the transportation.
We have almost everything.
What we don't have is the Spirit.
Obviously, we cannot find it in any economic plan or
system, since economic justice is the result· of a world in
harmony, and not the creator of it. What is left to bring us
safely through this galactic storm?
Only Education and Religion remain.
Which?
Education? Can Education save us?
Certainly it can help. However, the crisis in which the
world now finds itself is a moral, not an intellectual crisis.
Education can guarantee knowledge, but it cannot
guarantee wisdom. The most intellectually brilliant
scholar can be cruel, selfish and unjust. Intellectual or
technical education, no matter how broad or prolonged,
cannot be depended upon to make men kind, generous or
loving. Some of our so-called most advanced nations have
proved to be the most ruthless, barbarous and deadly.
Education is certainly an essential and vital ingredient
in establishing and maintaining this better world we seek,
but it is obviously not the Master-Architect we desper-
ately need in our hour of realized doom.
Education cannot save us.
Religion?
Which?
Christian? Jewish? Muslim? Hindu? Buddhist? Zoroas-
trian? Or any among all the others?
If Muslim, which sect? Shiah or Sunni?

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
If Jewish, which? Orthodox, Reformed or Conserva-
tive?
If Christian, which branch or sect? Catholic or Protes-
tant or Greek Orthodox? If Protestant, which one of the
several hundred existing sects? Anglican? Lutheran?
Presbyterian? Baptist? Methodist? On and on they go.
There is no need to continue, the point is clear.
In each religion there is beauty, truth and power. Each
is a Way and a Path. Each has accomplished miracles in
the hearts of its followers.
But collectively they are disunited. There is even
disunity within each one. After all, sects of the great
religions are born because of differences, not agreement.
God made them one and progressive, as we have seen
from our drawings in the chapter, 'The Banner of Islam'.
Man has made them many.
A mirror shattered into pieces cannot be expected to
reflect the full, bright, shining light of the sun. Only a
flash, a glimmering is seen, although still beautiful
enough to capture hearts.
• No sincere person would ever belittle the personal
comfort which each of these great religions brings to the
individuals who believe in them. Yet, neither would any
sincere person deny their apparent helplessness in dealing
effectively with the grave social problems which are
tormenting this perilous age. Religion is unable to deal
with the planetary problems facing today's world. It has
been unable to heal the wounds in its own divided and
separated body.
How then can we expect it to bind up the broken limbs
of a sceptical and disbelieving society?
Where then do we turn?
What is left?
The United Nations!
It chills the heart to think that even this marvellous
accomplishment of the human race, the United Nations,
may not be able to save us after all.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
The United Nations was once the 'darling of our
hearts'!
No fair-minded man would ever deny its wonderful
victories in so many fields. Who can fail to appreciate the
fires it has put out, the threats it has averted, or the
ominous catastrophes it has delayed? Its great services in
the areas of World Health, World Bank, Unesco, Unicef,
Catastrophe Relief, Economic Assistance, and many
other splendid areas of service, are brilliant and unques-
tioned.
Yet, in the most vital area of all, the important political
area, which determines the survival of every human being
on the planet, our old friends Partisan, National, Hemi-
sphere, Group and Block-of-Nations Politics eat remorse-
lessly away at the framework day by day.
There is no need to catalogue the various conflicts,
divisions, and tactics which now threaten the ultimate
survival of this slowly-fading hope of the world.
The lustre of those 'golden days' in San Francisco is
long forgotten. The world-wide joy of those happy hours,
when the Charter was written and the blue-and-white
Flag of World Peace was fashioned, has dimmed.
There is no longer that exciting spell of World-Oneness
that brightened our hopes and cheered our hearts. Gone is
the sense of unity and determination, in spite of basic
differences, that assured the peoples of the world that our
planet was at last in safe hands for the future, and we
could put aside the haunting spectre of a Third World
War.
What days they were!
Gradually, our United Nations has become like the Cat
in Aesop's Fable. The Cat was permitted to attend the
great Banquet Hall dressed as a beautiful damsel,
provided it would remember to behave properly.
So, in like manner, do the leaders of the world's nations
attend the critical conference tables, dressed up as lovers

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
of mankind, expressing concern for the welfare of all
nations and peoples, as well as for their own.
Until, suddenly, the 'Mouse of Spoils!' -
Power,
Prestige, Position, Advantage - runs across the banquet
table in front of them.
Zoom! A Cat again!
It is beginning to appear that the printer, who made the
unfortunate typographical error with his linotype ma-
chine at San Francisco, was prophetic.
On the day of the signing of the United Nations
Charter, he misplaced the letter "I" in one of the
newspaper headlines. Instead of writing: THE UNITED
NATIONS, he typed: THE UNTIED NATIONS.
That great world-protecting knot has been slipping,
little by little, more and more, since those early days of
great expectancy. It has been slowly loosened by the
increasing hostility of the contending nations.
The looser the knot becomes, the greater grows the
danger.
The world still rests its hopes in and supports the
United Nations, and sacrifices generously for its survival.
It remains the very best of all we have. But the United
Nations cannot save us.
Not until the 'pollution' in the hearts of its members
has been replaced by the wholesome, selfless virtues
needed to put the world, not their own nations, first in all
their deliberations, will it be successful.
It is, after all, a United Nations, not Nation.
That wonderful body can delay, it can soften, it can win
us precious time, but it cannot prevent the inevitable,
all-consuming disaster that slowly and resistlessly
approaches in spite of all we do.
What might once have been, now will never be.
What a tragedy it is, that we must look elsewhere.
We were so close!

A CRY FROM THE HEART
A vision of things to come
What has all this background on the United Nations to do
with the current martyrdom of so many Baha'is in Y azd,
Shiraz, Tabriz, Teheran and Ramadan?
Everything!
In fact, it will bring into focus all that I have written
thus far. It will help us to understand why I have repeated
so many times that they are a new breed of martyrs,
unique and special, and why their deaths are of signifi-
cance to everyone, and not just to their fellow Baha'is.
Over one hundred years ago, Baha'u'llah, Founder of
the Baha'i Faith, wrote to the rulers and leaders of men,
the Heads of State of that day, calling upon them to raise
up a World Body, which would foster the growth of a
world community. Baha'u'llah described the character
and purpose of this Body. He said that it would have the
primary responsibility of establishing an enduring peace
among men.
Baha'u'llah did far more than merely call for its
establishment. He offered to the world's leaders the laws,
principles, institutions, agencies and guidance which
would enable them to raise up, preserve and maintain this
world peace. Above all, He brought the Spirit to make it
all work.*
Unwittingly, unaware of the Source that drove them on
* That, of course, is but one facet of the great world spiritual 'force'
released by Baha'u'llah. This Commonwealth of all nations would rule
in justice the entire earth, and exercise 'unchallengeable authority over
its unimaginably vast resources, blending and embodying the ideals of
both the East and the West, liberated from the curse of war and its
miseries, and bent on the exploitation of all the available sources of
energy on the surface of the planet, a system in which Force is made
the servant of Justice' - a world dedicated to the safety, security and
happiness of all peoples on the planet, without preference, without
exception.

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
to their destiny, completely ignoring the guidance they
had received, the nations of the world twice made an
effort to establish this 'Union of Nations' as it was called
in the Baha'i writings. First, the League of Nations; then,
in a far more concentrated world-wide effort, the United
Nations as we know it today.
Unfortunately for mankind, the nations of the world, in
their attempts to establish a World Consultative Body,
followed only a part of Baha'u'llah's guidance. As a
result, they achieved only part of their possible success.
How tragic that they didn't follow it all.
It is one of the most fascinating, but ironic twists of
history that mankind should have been on the very
threshold of one of the most significant and major
discoveries of all time. The information which the nations
of the world needed, to assure their safety and survival on
the planet, had already been placed in the hands of the
leaders of their countries. It was a veritable 'mother-lode'
of Truth and Guidance, a spiritual 'force' which was
completely capable of meeting head-on, and resolving the
terrifying and paralyzing problems that weighed the
world down.
They failed each time to recognize its true worth.
This 'Pearl of Great Price', as sacred Scripture called it,
this treasured gift of nation-healing, was ignored, to the
peril of us all.
Several of the Fourteen Points which President Wood-
row Wilson presented, in launching his concept of the
League of Nations, fairly breathed the spirit of Baha'u'-
llah's teachings on World Unity.
The President was familiar with the writings of
Baha'u'llah. Many of the concepts were there, but the
Source remained unrecognized and unmentioned. That
Source which, alone, could deliver the spiritual 'fire
power' absolutely essential to the success of the entire
venture. The League struggled but failed in its prime task
of securing peace. Although it laid the foundations of

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
great world agencies, it could not prevent the militarism
which finally led to World War II.
That was the first attempt.
The story of the second attempt, the founding of the
United Nations, is far more intimately and dramatically
interwoven with the fortunes and the fate of both
humanity and the Baha'i Faith. It is told in detail
elsewhere.* Here, we touch only the brief est highlights.
California, site of the great United Nations Conference
where the Charter was written ~nd its blue-and-white flag
was raised, had already been designated for this honour
in the writings of the Baha'i Faith - long before the event
took place.
'Abdu'l-Baha, the appointed successor of Baha'u'llah,
uttered these prophetic words in the shadow of San
Francisco: 'May the first flag of International Peace be
upraised in this State .. .'
It all came true, with the exactness of the stars.
One of the most interesting links between the Baha'i
Faith and the emergence of the United Nations is seen in
Baha'u'llah's addresses to the rulers and leaders of
mankind. Especially four remarkable and historic docu-
ments.
To whom were these four documents written?
To the rulers of the four countries who were designated
as four out of the jive 'Permanent Members' of the Security
Council of the United Nations.
Imagine!
The rulers of Britain, France, Russia and the United
States (China was the fifth) received these special
messages from Baha'u'llah, concerning the responsibili-
ties of the nations and their leaders towards the vital
needs of the emerging world sodety of the present day.
In His letter to Queen Victoria, Baha'u'llah called upon
• See 'Abdu'l-Baha by Hasan Balyuzi (George Ronald, Oxford, 1971),
pp. 312-13; and The Prisoner and the Kings by William Sears (General
Publishing Co. Ltd. Toronto).

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
the rulers of the earth to be reconciled among themselves,
to reduce their armaments, and to be united so that their
peoples might 'find rest'. He advised them to take couusel
together: 'Let your concern be only for that which
profiteth mankind and bettereth the condition thereof .. .'
His Mission, He told them, was 'to regenerate and unify
mankind.'
In many of Baha'u'llah's writings this ringing call was
made. He emphasized the absolute necessity, the utter
urgency of establishing a World Body, and declared that
the time had come for the calling together of 'a vast, an
all-embracing assemblage of men' so that the rights of all
nations and peoples might be assured, and the peace of
the world, at long last, become a reality. He even gave
clear guidance concerning the steps such a body of
nations should follow to achieve the protection and
permanent security of mankind.
All these dramatic events are inseparably linked to the
story of the present-day martyrs in Iran.
Every additional bit of background information on the
Baha'i Faith and its relationship to the world and its
peoples increases our understanding of why no true
Baha'i in Iran, or anywhere else in the world, would ever
think of renouncing his Faith.
It is too wonderful to give up.
He or she would rather die first, and thus become part
of that forward momentum and spiritual 'fire power' that
is speeding God's Plan on its way to fulfilment on the
entire surface of the planet.
Baha'u'llah offered the world in His writings clear and
convincing solutions for the troubles and problems it
would soon have to deal with, many of which were
unforeseen except by Him.*
* The fascinating story of Baha'u'llah's letters to the leaders of men,
and the solutions He offered to their problems, can be found in: The
Promised Day is Come, by Shoghi Effendi (Baha'i Publishing Trust,
Wilmette, Illinois, rev. 1961), and The Proclamation of Baha'u'/lah, by
Baha'u'llah (Baha'i World Centre, Haifa, 1967), both of which
describe this thrilling and dramatic story of His 'call to the nations'.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
Such problems as:
1. The threat of global war.
2. The mad race to fashion ever-greater weapons of
destruction which could 'poison' the atmosphere and
destroy the cities.
3. The need to reduce armaments to the measure
necessary to safeguard internal security, and, in
partnership with all other nations, to police the world.
4. Seething racial tension.
5. Corruption and graft in government, politics, and
business.
6. The weakening and dissolution of marriage ties, and
the grievous disintegration of family life.
7. Widespread crime and violence, intensifying every-
where.
8. The alarming increase in mental illness of all kinds.
9. The even more alarming world-wide increase in the
use of alcohol.
10. The
terrifying,
soul-destroying, mind-damaging
wounds caused by an unparalleled increase in the use
of habit-forming drugs.
11. Religion's failure to solve personal and social prob-
lems.
12. The growing threat of atheism.
13. The mounting conflict between capital and labour.
14. The increasing discrepancy between rich and poor.
This vision of 'things to come' by Baha'u'llah is not at
all surprising, when we remember that He has called
upon all His followers in the Baha'i world to arise and
help establish that 'Christ-promised Kingdom of God on
earth'.
Christ had clearly foretold that the 'Spirit of Truth',
when He should come, would lead men 'unto all truth',
and inform them of those many things which they were
unable to hear long centuries ago.
Baha'u'llah has done all that, and more.

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
Small wonder then that the humblest believers in Iran,
who truly love both the Bab and Baha'u'llah, and all
Their teachings, would scornfully reply: 'No!' to the
executioners who try to get them to deny their Faith.
They answer today exactly as the uncle of the Bab
answered the Prime Minister of Iran, who had sentenced
him to death in Teheran unless he would recant his Faith.
He said firmly:
'If I refuse to acknowledge the mission of the Bab, I
must also deny the divine character of the message which
Muhammad, Jesus, Moses and all the Prophets of the past
have revealed. God knows that whatever I have heard
and read concerning the lives of these past Messengers of
God, the same have I been privileged to witness from this
Youth, this beloved Kinsman of mine, from His earliest
boyhood to this, the thirtieth year of His life. I only
request that you allow me to be the first to lay down my
life in His path.'
The Prime Minister, stupefied by such an answer,
without uttering a word, motioned that the Bab's uncle
should be taken out and beheaded.*
Already, over one hundred and thirty years ago, they
were a new breed of martyrs who died on behalf of all
religions, all the Messengers of God, and all the nations
and peoples they represented.
I hope that some day you will read each one of their
remarkable and thrilling stories, concerning the fulfilment
of the promise of all ages and the founding of the
Kingdom of God on earth.
• The full story of this uncle of the Bab, I:Jaji Mirza Siyyid 'Ali, may
be read in Nabil's Narrative, The Dawn-Breakers (US edn.), pp. 446-9.
His words as given here are a close paraphrase.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
'Release the chains!'
We are approaching the end of our journey.
I think you will agree that the story behind the
martyrdoms in Iran, explaining why the Baha'i heroes
and heroines die so willingly, would have been both
incomplete and inaccurate, their cruel and senseless
murders quite incomprehensible, if we had not shared
with you this background.
They are not just part of the Islamic Revolution, nor
part of the plan of the present regime in Iran; they are
part of the Plan of God.
There is quite a difference.
There remain only two things for me to do before
ending this Cry from the Heart. Both are quite pleasing,
and are equally intriguing.
One: Make clear exactly why there have been nearly
one hundred and fifty years of persecution and death for
the Baha'i community in Iran.
Two: Demonstrate that there is already functioning in
the world a microcosm - the Baha'i World Community-
which has successfully met and overcome the society-
destroying sicknesses, evils and conflicts which beset and
divide the world at large.
There is a place to turn to for an answer. One which has
already proved that it can do the job, however big,
involved, or seemingly insoluble.
You may not be the least bit religious, but can you
afford to ignore a community which, in more than one
hundred thousand places in the world, has turned hate
into love, fear into courage, despondency into hope, and
indifference into enthusiastic service on behalf of the
entire human race?
So, let's start racing toward the end.
First: why have the persecutions and deaths of the
Baha'is in Iran gone on so long?

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
The answer is quite simple.
The goal, which the Baha'is everywhere on the planet
have set themselves to achieve, is of incomparable
greatness.
It is to bring about the organic unity of all nations,
races, religions and peoples. One great peaceful, prosper-
ous, progressive human society, with differences harmon-
ized and aspirations blended into one common effort.
Therefore, the preparation and sacrifice for such a
tremendous accomplishment must be equally as great as
the goal itself. A mighty structure takes infinitely more
time and trouble to raise up than a smaller one. The
Baha'is are building the Kingdom of God on earth, and
this is the long-awaited and promised Day of the One Fold
and One Shepherd.
What we are talking about is a tremendous Event in the
history of the world. Unique. Peerless. Unprecedented. A
Day of incomparable greatness.
The sacrifice required to usher in such an unprece-
dented age of World Unity is likewise of the same heroic
proportions.
It has involved the Herald of this new Day, as well as
the Founder.
The Bab sacrificed His life for all the Prophets gone
before. Baha'u'llah, in His turn, the Promised One of
all religions, races, nations and peoples, offered up His
life throughout half a century of persecution. It is a story
the like of which the ears of men have never heard. So
great was Their love for the Messengers who prepared the
way for Them that it cannot be contained in the words of
man.
Baha'u'llah felt this tender, inexpressible love for all
God's Messengers. He wrote about Them so often and so
lovingly, and He took upon Himself all Their sufferings.
He was exiled like Abraham, He was stoned like Moses,
He was scourged like Christ. For forty long years, exactly

A CRY FROM
THE HEART
as foretold in Scripture, He endured the agony of a fresh
affliction almost every day.*
He was once scourged, twice stoned, three times
imprisoned, four times exiled. He was poisoned on three
separate occasions. He was weighted down with hundred-
pound chains that tore His flesh and scarred His body all
the remaining days of His life. His feet were placed in
stocks. He was chained to the floor and to His compan-
ions in an underground dungeon-prison. He was in
mortal danger all His life.
Yet every attempt made upon Baha'u'llah's life by the
authorities in Iran, and His enemies in other places, was
frustrated. God had other plans. In spite of all their
schemes and machinations, Baha'u'llah came at last to the
Holy Land, and to Carmel, the Mountain and Vineyard
of God. It was the place destined for Him by God from
the beginning of history.
The Father, the Lord of the Vineyard, had come home
at last!
From His cell in the fortress-prison of 'Akka, Baha'u' -
llah wrote on behalf of all the Messengers of God:
The Ancient Beauty hath consented to be bound with
chains that mankind may be released from its bondage,
and hath accepted to be made a prisoner within this
most mighty Stronghold that the whole world may
attain unto true liberty. He hath drained to its dregs the
cup of sorrow, that all the peoples of the earth may
attain unto abiding joy, and be filled with gladness.
This is of the mercy of your Lord, the Compassionate,
the Most Merciful. We have accepted to be abased, 0
believers in the Unity of God, that ye may be exalted,
and have suffered manifold afflictions, that ye might
prosper and flourish.
That is the answer to the question, Why have the Baha'i
* See Psalms 95: 10

A NEW BREED OF MARTYRS
persecutions and martyrdoms gone on for such a long
time in Iran? It was the Cradle of this World Religion, the
scene of the first battles, where the trenches were dug deep
into the soil of the human heart. No day has ever been
like it or ever will be again.
The sacrifice is commensurate.
Microcosm, Macrocosm!
You might call the Baha'is in their hundred-thousand
communities around the world the 'spiritual mutants' of
this age, for they have already demonstrated their ability
to change hate into love, prejudice into admiration,
indifference into enthusiasm, and neglect into involve-
ment. Through the Spirit with which Baha'u'llah, the
Founder of their Faith, has imbued them, they have been
able to change the hearts of men, something far more
difficult to do than changing copper into gold.
The need to change the hearts of mankind is devastat-
ingly apparent everywhere; the Baha'is are working that
very miracle every day of their lives all over the planet.
The world could find no more hopeful or encouraging
example anywhere than that offered every day in the
Baha'i communities around the world.
Already, in their growing microcosm of a world
community, the Baha'is have won victories which human-
ity is still desperately and unsuccessfully struggling to
achieve. Already they have resolved devastating racial
differences, desolating religious prejudices, and have
conquered those seemingly unconquerable hatreds, all of
which now threaten the entire macrocosm of the world.
Where else can mankind find another such proof that it
can be done?
But just how effective is it?
A world in despair might think about this:
Baha'is already have Arabs and Jews working together

A CRY FROM THE HEART
side by side in their local communities, not necessarily in
Chicago or London or Buenos Aires where it might be
safe, but in those very areas of the world where members
of these races stand ready, poised, and prepared to kill
and annihilate each other.
Baha'is of Christian and Muslim backgrounds now live
together in peace and active participation in the Baha'i
communities of Lebanon.
Irish and British Baha'is in Northern Ireland, once
Catholic and Protestant, are bne in spirit and love for
each other. They serve together harmoniously, with
genuine affection and co-operation, in their Baha'i local
communities in that land.
The same holds true of the black and the white in
Africa, and in the southern States of the United States.
The Spirit of the Baha'i Faith has captured their hearts,
and transformed their former hatreds and antagonisms
into love and unity, genuine and sincere. They work
together happily, with laughter and a new-found joy, in
enthusiastic co-operation.
This also holds true of capitalist and communist, East
and West, rich and poor, old and young, passive and
dominant - they have all forsaken their former limited
and defensive isolated positions in order to allow the
Spirit of Baha'u'llah to take over and transform their
lives.
They are indeed a 'new race' of men and women.
They are only too happy to give up everything in life to
be a part of this wonderful, healing, hope-restoring
Kingdom of God on earth. Not tomorrow, or in some far-
off day. But now, today, when the world needs it.
This is not some vague day of religious mystery and
wonder that we are talking about, a Kingdom that would
descend in some strange way from the clouds.
Not on your life!
This is a world in which every person on earth will be
motivated, for a change, by his human, his moral, his

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
ethical, and his spiritual virtues. Not by his animal nature,
as we see happening so grossly in the darkened world
around us. A world in which every man, woman and child
will be able to develop the latent talents and gifts with
which God has so generously endowed them. Where
education will be for all on the planet who wish it, really
for all. Where have and have-not people, and have and
have-not nations will no longer exist.
We have become a pleasure-seeking society, not a
truth-seeking society. We should be both. We have
become a profit-making, rather than a welfare-producing
society. We should be both.
We should be balanced. Natural human beings living
full, rich, useful lives of happiness and service, sur-
rounded by the warming love and comfort of our families
and neighbours.
It is this world the Baha'i community wants everyone
to enjoy. This is the world for which every Baha'i martyr
in Iran, and all Baha'is everywhere on the planet, are
sacrificing their time, their resources, their energies, and,
if necessary, their lives.
It is the long-awaited, and universally foretold King-
dom of God on earth.
That's worth dying for, isn't it?
Incidentally, I've changed my mind.
I do want something from you.
I'm holding in my hand yet another cablegram!
I was on my way to mail these final chapters when I
found it waiting for me in my Post Office box.
It tells of the martyrdom of six more dear Baha'i friends
under unspeakable conditions, five on the very day I
finished this book. One in Teheran, five more in Darun, a
village near Isfahan.
Same false charges, same illegal executions by firing-
squads. Only this time, they tried to hide the entire

A CRY FROM THE HEART
murderous project. No announcement of the killings was
made.
The pressure of the world is beginning to tell, but their
'well-organized, carefully conceived, ruthlessly imple-
mented plan of extermination' goes remorselessly on.
As I write the final revised paragraphs of this book, I
say farewell to:
I:Iabibu'llah 'Azizi in Teheran,
Bahman 'Atifi,
'Izzat •Aiifi,
'Aia'u'llah Raw4ani,
A4mad Riqvani,
and Thabit Rasikh, all in Darun.
The families of these dear innocent victims were not
even informed of the executions. Their relatives were not
permitted to conduct Baha'i funerals for their loved ones.
Three of these dear souls were buried unceremoniously in
Muslim graves.
However secretly and insidiously the fanatics in Iran
behave, it is only a secret to them. Already the Baha'i
World Community in all the continents of the globe is
sharing the 'secret' with the press, radio, television,
newspapers and governments.
It is this cablegram, and the last one from Hamadan
describing the tortures inflicted on the bodies of my
friends there, that still haunt me.
These are what make me change my mind. I do want
something - a brief prayer.
Whenever you think of it, or whenever it's convenient.
Just: 'O God! Protect the innocent Baha'is.'
The way I look at it, since this book will be read by
people everywhere in the world, that should add up to a
lot of prayers. Particularly if they are Hindu, Buddhist,
Zoroastrian, Jewish, Muslim, Christian, Catholic, Baptist,
Lutheran, Methodist, Presbyterian, Anglican and Ameri-
can Indian.

A NEW BREED
OF MARTYRS
Keep the good thought!
My book is over.
It was never authoritative, nor was it official. It was
always personal. My own heartfelt cry of indignation at
what was happening to some of the finest, sweetest and
dearest people ever placed on the planet.
This book was for them, my friends.
It was also for you, one of that overwhelming number
of sincere souls who still beldng to the human race.
My reward is that you and your friends have finally
heard my Cry from the Heart.
A cry from the heart: 'How long, 0 Lord?
How long? How long is justice hidden?'
'Till the very end,' the Lord replied.
'Till all is won, as God has bidden.'
May that day come soon.

Names
Many other dear friends have been arrested, imprisoned,
executed and interrogated. Some were released. At least
temporarily. Some were kidnapped, their whereabouts
still unknown. Others still remain in prison awaiting their
fate.
I have not circled their names. Not yet.
May I never have to do so.
You need not dwell on the names. This part of the book
is for me. I merely wanted you to see their names as you
skim rapidly through these pages.
Very few people believe in anything these days. Belief
in God has dwindled considerably. I mean such a belief in
God that you are willing to die for it. Therefore, the
names on this Honour Roll carry a special fragrance and a
blessing for the eyes.
These names are difficult to pronounce for a westerner
who is not familiar with Farsi (Persian), but how sweet to
the ear is the sound of the names of heroes!
No wonder the Baha'is the world over love the Persian
people. Especially these Persian people who rank among
the finest of all Iranians.
Fathers, mothers, husbands, wives, children, all gave
up their lives rather than give up their belief in
Baha'u'llah and the Baha'i Faith. Willingly, valiantly,
enthusiastically.
No wonder I have put them on my Honour Roll so
their names will be seen by their fellow Baha'is in every

NAMES
part of the world. I wanted to give them the honour of
your seeing their names as well, if only a brief glimpse in
passing.
What a pity to impoverish the land and lose all this love
and dedication.

BAHA'iS KILLED IN IRAN SINCE 1978
As of 15 December, 1981
(Published as received from official sources)
A number of those listed were members of Baha'i institutions, indicated as follows: Continental Board of
Counsellors (CBC); Auxiliary Board (AB); National Spiritual Assembly (NSA); Local Spiritual
Assembly (LSA).
No.
Date
Name
Place
Remarks
I.
1978 Mr Al).mad Isma 'ili
Ahram
Killed
2.
12 Aug. 1978 Mr Qiya'u'llah J:laqiqat
Jahrum
Intentionally run over
and killed by motor-
cycle
3.
27 Aug. 1978 Mr Naw-Ruzi
Shahmirzad
Burned to death
4.
27 Aug. 1978 Mr Akhavan-i-Kathiri
Shahmirzad
Burned to death
5.
IO Oct. 1978 Mr J:laji-Mul).ammad 'Azizi
Khurmuj
Beaten to death
6.
Dec. 1978 Mr I:Iatam Ruzbihi
Buyir-Al).mad
Killed by mobs
7.
Dec. 1978 Mr Jan-'Ali Ruzbihi
Buyir-Al).mad
Killed by mobs
8.
Dec. 1978 Mr Shir-Mul).ammad Dastpish
Buyir-Al).mad
Killed by mobs
9.
14 Dec. 1978 Mr Sifatu'llah Fahandizh
f
Shiraz
Mobbed in incident
IO.
14 Dec. 1978 Mrs Fahandizh
in Sa'diyyih
11.
22 Dec. 1978 Mr Parviz Afnani
Miyan-Du'ab
Killed by mobs
12.
22 Dec. 1978 Mr Khusraw Afnani
and bodies burned
s

13.
Early 1979 Mr Ibrahim Ma'navi
l:Ii~ar, Khurasan
Killed
14.
2 Apr. 1979 Mr IJusayn Shakurl
Ushnaviyyih
Killed
15.
27 Sep. 1979 Mr Bahar Vujdani
Mahabad
Executed
16.
28 Oct. 1979 Mr 'Ali Sattarzadih
Bu.kiln
Killed
17.
14 Dec. 1979 Mr 'A~amatu'llah Fahandizh
Shiraz
Executed
18.
4 Feb. 1980 Mr ij:abibu'llah Panahi
Urumiyyih
Assassinated
19.
6 May 1980 Mr Ghulam-IJusayn A'~ami
Teheran
Executed
20.
6 May 1980 Mr Badi'u'llah Yazdani
Teheran
Executed
21.
6 May 1980 Mr 'Ali-Akbar Mu'ini
Teheran
Executed
22.
9 May 1980 Mr 'Ali-Akbar Khursandi
Teheran
Tortured and hanged
23.
l l May 1980 Mr Parviz Bayani
Piranshahr
Executed
24.
18 May 1980 Mr Mir-Asadu'llah Mukhtari
Andrun, Birjand
Stoned to death
25.
June 1980 Mr ij:asan Isma 'ilzadih
Sanandaj
Killed
26.
27 June 1980 Mr Yusuf Subl].ani
Teheran
Executed
27.
14 July 1980 Dr Faramarz Samandari
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
28.
14 July 1980 Mr Yadu'llah Astani
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
29.
16 July 1980 Mr 'Ali Dadash-Akbari
Rasht
Executed (LSA)
30.
30 July 1980 Mr Yadu'llah Ma}].bubiyan
Teheran
Executed
31.
15 Aug. 1980 Mr Dhabi}].u'llah Mu'mini
Teheran
Executed
32.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr Nuru'llah Akhtar-Khavari
Yazd
Executed (LSA)
33.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr Mal].mud IJasanzadih
Yazd
Executed (LSA)
34.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr 'Azizu'llah Dhabi}].iyan
Yazd
Executed (AB)
N
35.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr Firaydun Faridani
Yazd
Executed (AB)
...,

No.
Date
Name
Place
Remarks
N
36.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr 'Abdu'l-Vahhab Ka~irnf
i
Manshadi
Yazd
Executed (LSA)
37.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr Jalal Mustaqirn
Yazd
Executed (LSA)
38.
8 Sep. 1980 Mr 'Ali Mutahhari
Yazd
Executed (LSA)
39.
9 Nov. 1980 Mr Riqa Firuzi
Tabriz
Executed
40.
22 Nov. 1980 Mr Mu}J.arnrnad-I:Iusayn Ma'~urni
Nuk, Birjand
Burned to death
41.
22 Nov. 1980 Mrs Shikkar-Nisa' Ma'~urni
Nuk, Birjand
Burned to death
42.
17 Dec. 1980 Mr Bihruz Sana'i
Teheran
Executed
43.
12 Jan. 1981 Dr Manuchihr I:Iakirn
Teheran
Assassinated
44.
17 Mar. 1981 Mr Mihdi Anvari
Shiraz
Executed
45.
17 Mar. 1981 Mr Hidayatu'llah Dihqani
Shiraz
Executed
46.
Apr. 1981 Mrs Nuraniyyih Yarshatir
Teheran
Assassinated
47.
30 Apr. 1981 Mr Yadu'llah Va}J.dat
Shiraz
Executed (AB)
48.
30 Apr. 1981 Mr Sattar Khushkhu
Shiraz
Executed
49.
30 Apr. 1981 Mr l}J.sanu'llah Mihdi-Zadih
Shiraz
Executed
50.
14 June 1981 Mr Suhrab (Mu}J.arnrnad) I:Iabibi
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)
51.
14 June 1981 Mr I:Iusayn Khandil
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)
52.
14 June 1981 Mr Tara~u'llah Khuzayn
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)
53.
14 June 1981 Dr Firuz Na'irni
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)
54.
14 June 1981 Dr Na~ir Vafa'i
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)
55.
14 June 1981 Mr Suhayl (Mu}J.arnrnad-Baqir)
I:Iabibi
Harnadan
Executed (LSA)

56.
14 June 1981 Mr I:Iusayn MuJlaq
Hamadan
Executed (LSA)
57.
22 June 1981 Mr Buzurg 'Alaviyan
Teheran
Executed
58.
22 June 1981 Mr Hashim Farmish
Teheran
Executed (AB)
59.
22 June 1981 Mr Farhang Mavaddat
Teheran
Executed
60.
23 June 1981 Dr Masi]} Farhangi
Teheran
Executed (CBC)
61.
23 June 1981 Mr Badi'u'llah Farid
Teheran
Executed
62.
23 June 1981 Mr Y adu'llah Pustchi
Teheran
Executed
63.
23 June 1981 Mr Varqa Tibyaniyan
(Tibyani)
Teheran
Executed
64.
26 July 1981 Mr Kamalu'd-Din Bakhtavar
Kashmar,
Executed
Khurasan
65.
26 July 1981 Mr Ni'matu'llah Katib-pur
Kashmar,
Executed
Shahidi
Khurasan
66.
29 July 1981 Mr Allah-Virdi Mithaqi
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
67.
29 July 1981 Mr Manuchihr Khaqi'i
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
68.
29 July 1981 Mr 'Abdu'l-'Ali Asadyari
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
69.
29 July 1981 Mr I:Iusayn Asadu'llah-
Zadih
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
70.
29 July 1981 Mr Isma'il Zihtab
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
71.
29 July 1981 Dr Parviz Finizi
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
72.
29 July 1981 Mr Mihdi Bahiri
Tabriz
Executed (LSA)
73.
29 July 1981 Mr l:labibu'llah Tal}qiqi
Tabriz
Executed
N
74.
29 July 1981 Dr Masrur Dakhili
Tabriz
Executed (AB)
V,

No.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
No.
I.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
Date
Name
Place
Remarks
5 Aug. 1981 Mr I:Iusayn Rastigar-Namdar
Teheran
Executed
29 Aug. 1981 Mr I:Iabibu'llah 'Azizi
Teheran
Executed
11 Sep. 1981 Mr 'Ma'u'llah Raw}J.ani
Danin, l~fahan
Executed
11 Sep. 1981
Mr A}J.mad Riqvani
Danin, I~fahan
Executed
11 Sep. 1981 Mr Gushtasb Thabit Rasikh
Danin, I~fahan
Executed
11 Sep. 1981 Mr 'Izzat •Atifi
Danin, I~fahan
Executed
11 Sep. 1981 Mr Bahman •Atifi
Darun, I~fahan
Executed
18 Nov. 1981 Mr Sipihr Arfa'
Teheran
Executed
BAHA'iS (WHOSE NAMES ARE KNOWN) IMPRISONED IN IRAN
As of 15 December, 1981
Date arrest
reported
Name
Place
IO Mar. 1979
Mr Parviz Yazdani
Teheran
6 Feb. 1980
Mr Nu~ratu'llah Bahrami
Teheran
6 Feb. 1980
Mr I:Iusayn 'Abidiyan-Mihr
Teheran
20 Feb. 1980
Mr Badi'u'llah Makkariyan
Gunbad Qabus
3 June 1980
Mr Mu}J.ammad-Riqa I:Iisami
Shiraz
5 June 1980
Mrs Qudsiyyih V a}J.dat
Shiraz
9 Aug. 1980
Mr Hidayatu'llah iqani
Abadih
N
~

8.
?
Mr Shamsu'llah Dhabf4i
Bihshahr
9.
9 Aug. 1980
Mr Qiya'i'd-Din A4madi
Birjand
10.
9 Aug. 1980
Mr 'Ali-Akbar Vaklli
Birjand
11.
3 Sept. 1980
Mr l:laydar Tawdi'i
Shahmirzad
12.
3 Sept. 1980
Mr I:Iaydar-'Ali Sana'i
Shahmirzad
13.
3 Sept. 1980
Mr 'Na'u'llah Sana'i
Shahmirzad
14.
3 Sept. 1980
Mr Riqvanu'llah Sana'i
Shahmirzad
15.
13 May 1981
Mr F arrukh N adiri
Shiraz
16.
10 July 1981
Mr 'Na'u'llah Mithaqi
Mashhad (AB)
17.
19 July 1981
Mr Musa Talibi
F aridan, I~fahan
18.
19 July 1981
Mr Akbar Ja 'fari
Faridan, I~fahan
19.
19 July 1981
Mr Khusraw Muradi
F atidan, I~fahan
20.
19 July 1981
Mr Baqir ishani
Afus, I~fahan
21.
19 July 1981
Mr Taymur ishani
Afus, I~fahan
22.
19 July 1981
Mr Manuchihr Ishraqi
Shahinshahr, I~fahan
23.
19 July 1981
Mr Shahriyar lshraqi
Shahinshahr, l~fahan
24.
19 July 1981
Mr Vafa'i
Shahinshahr, l~fahan (LSA)
25.
19 July 1981
Mr Bizhan Yazdani
Kalman, I~fahan (LSA)
26.
19 July 1981
Mr V aliyu'llah Danish
Kalman, I~fahan (LSA)
27.
19 July 1981
Mr Amiri
Kalman, I~fahan (LSA)
28.
19 July 1981
Mr Kamran Yazdani
Kalman, I~fahan
29.
19 July 1981
Mr I:Iusayn Nayyiri
I~fahan
ts,
30.
19 July 1981
Mr Bahram Mudrik
l~fahan
-.J

No.
Date arrest reported
Name
Place
N
31.
19 July 1981
Mr Luifu'llah Humayuni
I~fahan
32.
19 July 1981
Mr Bahram Mugahar
I~fahan
33.
19 July 1981
Mr Bahram Sharifi
I~fahan
34.
19 July 1981
Mr Humayuni
I~fahan (21 years old)
35.
19 July 1981
Mr Humayuni
I~fahan (teenager)
36.
19 July 1981
Mr Maqmud Mithaqi
Teheran (Kuy-i-Sina) (LSA)
37.
19 July 1981
Mr Amru'llah I:Iusayni
Teheran (Kuy-i-Sina) (LSA)
38.
19 July 1981
Mr Talibi
Karaj (Garm-Darrih)
39.
22 July 1981
Mr Nikju
Mashhad
40.
28 July 1981
Mr Hidayatu'llah Jamshidi
Yazd
41.
28 July 1981
Mr 'AWu'llah Tashakkur
Yazd
42.
31 July 1981
Mr 'Ali-Akbar Farrukh
Yazd
43.
31 July 1981
Mr Akhtar-Khavari
Yazd
44.
9 Aug. 1981
Mr Furuhar
Karaj
45.
9 Aug. 1981
Mrs Furuhar
Karaj
46.
9 Aug. 1981
Mr l:laq Paykar
Karaj
47.
11 Aug. 1981
Mr Mihrigani
Yazd
48.
12 Aug. 1981
Mr Jamshid Pustchi
Shiraz
49.
12 Aug. 1981
Mr Hidayat Siyavushi
Shiraz
50.
12 Aug. 1981
Mr Farhad Qudrat
Shiraz
51.
23 Aug. 1981
Mr Rajabniya
Mashhad (LSA)
52.
23 Aug. 1981
Mr 'Abdu'llahi
Mashhad (LSA)

53.
23 Aug. 1981
Mr iqani
Baba-Salman
54.
7 Sept. 1981
Mr A.mjari
Ardibil, Adhirbayjan
55.
28 Sept. 1981
Mr Ittihadi
Yazd
56.
28 Sept. 1981
Mrs Givih Muradiyan
Yazd
57.
28 Sept. 1981
Mr Kargar
Yazd
58.
28 Sept. 1981
Mrs Tashakkur Khurram
Yazd
59.
28 Sept. 1981
Mr Pur-Khursand
Yazd
60.
28 Sept. 1981
Mr Sha'ban Yusifiyan
Teheran
61.
28 Sept. 1981
Mrs Munirih Yusifiyan
Teheran
62.
28 Sept. 1981
Mr Yadu'llah Lami
Teheran
63.
28 Sept. 198 l
Mrs Mahin Lami
Teberan
64.
28 Sept. 1981
Mrs Mas'udih 'Azizi
Teheran
65.
12 Oct. 1981
Mr l:lusayn Val}.dat-i-l:laq
Teheran
66.
13 Oct. 1981
Mr 'AJa'u'llah Mi~bal}.
Rasht
67.
13 Oct. 1981
Mr Farzin Mi~bal}.
Rasht
68.
13 Oct. 1981
Mr 'Ma'u'llah Mushrif-Zadih
Rasht
69.
13 Oct. 1981
Mr Furughi
Teheran
70.
22 Oct. 1981
Mr Jalal Payravi
Urumiyyih (AB)
71.
26 Oct. 1981
Mr Qura'i-Nizhad
Shiraz (sentenced to
IO years imprisonment)
72.
26 Oct. 1981
Mr Ri<Jvan Rawl}.ani
Shiraz
73.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mr Kurush Tala'i
Teheran (LSA)
N
74.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mr Khusraw Muhandisi
Teheran (LSA)
'°
* Executed 4 Jan. 1982.

No.
Date arrest reported
Name
Place
N -
75.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mr Iskandar 'Azizi
Teheran (LSA)
76.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mr Fatlw'llah Firdawsi
Teheran (LSA)
77.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mr 'Na'u'llah Yavari
Teheran (LSA)
78.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mrs Shiva Asadu'llah-Zadih
Teheran (LSA)
79.
3 Nov. 1981
Mr Manuchihr Baqa
Teheran
80.
3 Nov. 1981
*Mrs Shidrukh Baqa
Teheran
81.
6 Dec. 1981
Mr Aminyan
Teheran
82.
7 Dec. 1981
Mr Akbar Hashimi
Rafsanjan
83.
7 Dec. 1981
Mr 'lnayatu'llah Sifidvash
Rasht
84.
7 Dec. 1981
Mr Nasir Nabili
Rasht
85.
14 Dec. 1981
t Mr Kamran Samimi
Teheran (NSA)
86.
14 Dec. 1981
tMrs Zhinus Mal)mudi
Teheran (NSA)
87.
14 Dec. 1981
tMr Mal)mud Majdhub
Teheran (NSA)
88.
14 Dec. 1981
t Mr Jalal 'Azizi
Teheran (NSA)
89.
14 Dec. 1981
tMr Mihdi Amin Amin
Teheran (NSA)
90.
14 Dec. 1981
tMr Sirus Rawshani
Teheran (NSA)
91.
14 Dec. 1981
tMr 'Izzatu'llah Furuhi
Teheran (NSA)
92.
14 Dec. 1981
tMr Qudratu'llah Rawhani
Teheran (NSA)
93.
14 Dec. 1981
Mr Dhuqu'llah Mu'min
Teheran
94.
14 Dec. 1981
Mrs Faridih Samimi
Teheran
* Executed 4 Jan. 1982.
t Executed
27 Dec. 1981.

No.
I.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
IO.
11.
12.
13.
14.
Date first missed
24 May 1979
11 Nov. 1979
3 Jan. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
21 Aug. 1980
BAHA'iS MISSING IN IRAN
Name
Mr Shaykh Mul}ammad Muval}l}id
Dr 'Alimurad Davudi
Mr Rul}i Rawshani
Mr 'Abdu'l-I:Iusayn Taslimi
Mr Hushang Mal}mudi
Mr Ibrahim Ral}mani
Dr I:Iusayn Naji
Mr Mamihir Qa'im-Maqami
Mr 'Na'u'llah Muqarrabi
Mr Yusif Qadimi
Mrs Bahiyyih Nadiri
Dr Kambiz Sadiqzadih
Dr Yusif 'Abbasiyan
Dr I:Iishmatu'llah Rawl}ani
Place
Teheran
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (LSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Tdieran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (NSA)
Teheran (AB)
Teheran (AB)
N

Stop Press
The following items of information were disseminated
throughout the Baha'i World Community after this book
was sent for publication. They clearly reveal the relentless
continuance of the bitter persecution of the Baha'is in
Iran.
November 1, 1981
ENGLISH TEXT CIRCULAR LETTER ISLAMIC MINISTRY FOREIGN
AFFAIRS FOLLOWS:
THE ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN
MINISTRY OF FOREIGN AFFAIRS
OFFICE:
DEPUTY
FOR
EDUCATIONAL
AND
CONSULATE
AFFAIRS
NO.: 17/533-10/4462
DATE: 21/5/1360 (12 AUGUST 1981)
STRICTLY CONFIDENTIAL-URGENT-DIRECT
IN THE NAME OF HIM WHO IS EXALTED
CIRCULAR LETTER TO ALL REPRESENTATIVES OF THE
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF IRAN IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
FROM THE DATE OF THIS CIRCULAR LETTER, ALL REPRESENTA-
TIVES ARE REQUIRED TO CAREFULLY PREPARE THE LIST OF
THE NAMES OF ALL BAHA'IS RESIDING WITHIN THEIR JURIS-
DICTION,
AND THE NAMES OF ANTI-REVOLUTIONARIES,
ES-
PECIALLY THE SO-CALLED STUDENTS. THESE LISTS SHOULD BE
SENT TO US. REPRESENTATIVES SHOULD ALSO REFRAIN FROM
EXTENDING
THE PASSPORTS OF THESE INDIVIDUALS.
ONLY
LAISSEZ-PASSER DOCUMENTS MAY BE ISSUED TO THEM.
DEPUTY FOR EDUCATION AND CONSULATE AFFAIRS,
(SIGNED)
JA V AD MANS URI

STOP PRESS
November 5, 1981
FOLLOWING GRAVE DEVELOPMENTS REPORTED FROM IRAN:
I. REFERENCE OUR CABLE 26 MAY 1981 WORK ON BUILDING
ROAD DESIGNED RUN THROUGH SITE BAB'S HOLY HOUSE
SHIRAZ BEING ACTIVELY RESUMED. RECENT REPORT INDI~
CATES
WORK
STEADILY
PROGRESSING
APPROACHING
SACRED PRECINCTS.
2. OFFICE NATIONAL ASSEMBLY BROKEN INTO PAPERS FILES
REMOVED.
3. SIX MEMBERS LOCAL ASSEMBLY TEHERAN SUMMARILY AR-
RESTED WHILE IN SESSION. COUPLE IN WHOSE HOME MEET-
ING WAS HELD HAVE ALSO BEEN DETAINED.
4. GOVERNMENT
IRAN
HAS
RECENTLY
INSTRUCTED
ITS
CONSULAR REPRESENTATIVES EVERYWHERE COMPILE LIST
BAHA'IS
RESIDING
AREAS
THEIR
RESPONSIBILITY
AND
HENCEFORTH
REFRAIN
FROM
EXTENDING
PASSPORTS
IRANIAN BAHA'IS.
November 5, 1981
NON-BAHA'I
EYEWITNESS
FRIENDLY
TO BAHA'IS JUST RE-
LEASED FROM PRISON HAS REPORTED HAVING SEEN PRISON
GUARDS SAVAGELY BEATING TORTURING
KURUSH TALA'I,
ISKANDAR AZIZI, AND FATHU'LLAH FIRDAWSI COURSE INTER-
ROGATIONS IN ORDER EXTORT FROM THEM ANSWERS REGARD-
ING FINANCIAL DEALINGS AND TRANSFERS OVERSEAS.
December 10, 1981
DISTRESSED REPORT RECENT DEVELOPMENTS IRAN EVIDENCE
FURTHER PERSECUTIONS ATROCITIES AGAINST DEFENSELESS
BELIEVERS CRADLE FAITH:
I. HOUSE OF BAHAULLAH IN TAKUR,
PREVIOUSLY CONFIS-
CATED, HAS NOW BEEN TOTALLY DEMOLISHED AND THIS
BAHA'I HOLY PLACE INCLUDING
LAND AND GARDENS
OFFERED FOR SALE TO PUBLIC BY AUTHORITIES.

A CRY FROM THE HEART
2. BAHA'I CEMETERY TEHERAN SEIZED ON SATURDAY 5 DE-
CEMBER
BY ORDER
REVOLUTIONARY
COURT,
5 CARE-
TAKERS AND 8 TEMPORARY
WORKERS ARRESTED,
AND
CEMETERY
CLOSED.
BAHA'IS
FEARFUL
DESECRATION
GRAVES. TENS OF THOUSANDS
BAHA'IS TEHERAN NOW
WITHOUT BURIAL GROUND. THIS RECENT INDECENT ACT
STILL ANOTHER EXAMPLE EVIL DESIGNS ELIMINATE BAHA'I
COMMUNITY THAT COUNTRY.
3. IN RUSTAQ, VILLAGE NEAR YAZD, DURING SECOND HALF
NOVEMBER 8 BAHA'IS, INCLUDING 2 WOMEN, ARRESTED. 20
BAHA'I HOMES SEALED, 5 EMPTIED OF FURNITURE.
4. NO BAHA'IS HA VE BEEN INCLUDED IN RECENTLY PUBLI-
CIZED AMNESTY. IN FACT, NEW ARRESTS HAVE BEEN MADE
AND BAHA'IS ARE STILL HELD IN PRISONS IN TEHERAN,
YAZD,
URUMIYYIH,
BIRJAND,
MASHHAD,
KARAJ
AND
ISFAHAN.
5. AN ISLAMIC SOCIETY
OSTENSIBLY
FORMED
'TO FIGHT
AGAINST RELIGIOUS TRANSGRESSIONS'
HAS TAKEN LIB-
ERTY TO RAID AND SEAL BAHA'I HOMES IN TEHERAN AND
TO CONFISCATE PROPERTIES. GROUP HAS ITS OWN PRISONS.
AT LEAST 4 BAHA'IS BELIEVED TAKEN BY THIS GROUP AND
PLACED IN ITS PRISONS.
December 14, 1981
HAVE JUST RECEIVED DISTRESSING REPORT EIGHT MEMBERS
NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY IRAN WHILE IN SESSION ARRESTED
TOGETHER
WITH TWO OTHER BELIEVERS IN HOME WHERE
MEETING WAS HELD. TWO WOMEN AMONG TEN DETAINEES.
AUTHORITY
RESPONSIBLE
FOR
ARRESTS
AND
LOCATION
PRISON STILL UNIDENTIFIED.
INFORM YOUR GOVERNMENTS
AND MEDIA.
December 29, 1981
WITH HEAVY HEARTS INFORM FRIENDS THROUGHOUT WORLD
EIGHT MEMBERS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY IRAN ARRESTED
l3
DECEMBER WERE EXECUTED 27 DECEMBER. THEY ARE:

STOP PRESS
MR KAMRAN SAMIMI
MRS ZHINUS MAHMUDI
MR MAHMUD MAJDHUB
MR JALAL AZIZI
MR MIHDI AMIN AMIN
MR SIR US RA WSHANI
MR IZZATULLAH FURUHI
MR QUDRATULLAH RAWHANI
FAMILIES NOT NOTIFIED OF ARRESTS, TRIAL, EXECUTIONS.
BODIES
BURIED
UNCEREMONIOUSLY
IN
BARREN
FIELD
RESERVED BY GOVERNMENT
FOR INFIDELS.
INFORMATION
DISCOVERED
FORTUITOUSLY.
GOVERNMENT
AUTHORITIES
TOTALLY SILENT, UNCOOPERATIVE.
THIS HEINOUS ACT CAUSES US FEAR THAT MEMBERS PRE-
VIOUS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY AND TWO AUXILIARY BOARD
MEMBERS WHO DISAPPEARED AUGUST 1980, AS WELL AS TWO
OTHERS WHOSE WHEREABOUTS UNKNOWN OVER TWO YEARS,
HAVE SUFFERED
SAME FATE. NAMES THESE HEROIC DEDI-
CATED SERVANTS BLESSED BEAUTY ARE:
AUXILIARY BOARD MEMBERS
DR YUSIF ABBASIY AN
DR HISHMATULLAH RAWHANI
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY MEMBERS
DR ALIMURAD DAVUDI
MR ABDUL-HUSA YN T ASLIMI
MR HUSHANG MAHMUDI
MR IBRAHIM RAHMANI
DR HUSA YN NAJI
MR MANUHIR QAIM-MAQAMI
MR ATAULLAH MUQARRABI
MR YUSIF QADIMI
MRS BAHIYYIH NADIR!
DR KAMBIZ SADIQZADIH
MEMBER LOCAL ASSEMBLY TEHERAN
MR RUHi RAWSHANI

A CRY FROM THE HEART
PROMINENT TEACHER
MR MUHAMMAD MUVAHHID
January 5, 1982
PRESIDENT
SUPREME
COURT
AYATOLLAH
ARDIBILI
IS RE-
PORTED BY NEWS SERVICES TO HAVE DENIED EXECUTION
EIGHT MEMBERS NATIONAL ASSEMBLY IRAN. YOU SHOULD
CATEGORICALLY
CONFIRM TO MEDIA OUR PREVIOUS INFOR-
MATION REGARDING
EXECUTIONS CORRECT. WE CONVINCED
EXECUTIONS WERE PLANNED TO BE KEPT SECRET BUT WERE
DISCOVERED
FORTUITOUSLY.
BAHA'I INTERNATIONAL
COM-
MUNITY REQUESTING SECRETARY GENERAL UNITED NATIONS
INVESTIGATE.
URGE YOU APPEAL YOUR GOVERNMENT
LEND
SUPPORT BAHA'I INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY REQUEST.
January 7, 1982
BAHA'I INTERNATIONAL
COMMUNITY
CABLING FOLLOWING
TEXT TO AYATOLLAH KHOMEINI, PRIME MINISTER MIR HUSAYN
MUSAVI,
AND
PRESIDENT
SUPREME
COURT
AYATOLLAH
MUSAVI ARDIBILI:
NEWS RECENT SECRET EXECUTION EIGHT MEMBERS NATIONAL
ASSEMBLY BAHA'IS IRAN, AND SEVEN OTHERS, SIX OF WHOM
WERE MEMBERS LOCAL ASSEMBLY TEHERAN, HAS SHOCKED
BAHA'IS
ENTIRE
WORLD.
TOTAL NUMBER
BAHA'IS WHOSE
MARTYRDOMS
OFFICIALLY
ACKNOWLEDGED
HAS
NOW
REACHED
NINETY-SEVEN.
FOURTEEN
OTHERS,
KNOWN TO
HAVE DISAPPEARED, FEARED TO HAVE SUFFERED SAME FATE.
HUNDREDS
IMPRISONED
THROUGHOUT
COUNTRY
ON
CHARGES
WITHOUT SUBSTANTIATING
EVIDENCE.
WE CATE-
GORICALLY DENY TRUTH THESE ACCUSATIONS.
AS BAHA'IS IRAN ARE RIGIDLY DENIED OPPORTUNITY PUB-
UCL Y PRESENT THEIR CASE, DEFEND THEIR RIGHTS, PROVE
THEIR
INNOCENCE,
AND ALL DOORS APPEAL THEIR CASE
CLOSED BEFORE THEM, WE THEREFORE
APPEAL TO YOU ON

STOP PRESS
THEIR BEHALF IN NAME OF BAHA'I COMMUNITIES
IN 164
INDEPENDENT COUNTRIES OF THE WORLD:
I. TO
ISSUE
IMMEDIATE
INSTRUCTIONS
STOP
SUMMARY
ARRESTS EXECUTIONS,
2. TO REQUIRE THOSE RESPONSIBLE PRODUCE PUBLISH DOCU-
MENTS WHICH HAVE FORMED BASIS CONVICTION BAHA'IS AS
SO-CALLED SPIES,
3. TO EXTEND TO BAHA'IS AS LAW-ABIDING CITIZENS, AND AS
A COMMUNITY, INALIENABLE RIGHT TO PUBLICLY DEFEND
THEMSELVES
DISPROVE MALICIOUS ACCUSATIONS FALSE
CHARGES.
WE LAY BEFORE YOU FATE THESE LOYAL CITIZENS ABOUT
WHOSE INNOCENCE, TRUE LOVE FOR IRAN AND REVERENCE
FOR SPIRIT ISLAM YOU SHOULD HAVE NO DOUBT. WE PRAY THE
ALMIGHTY MAY GUIDE YOU THIS ELEVENTH HOUR TO DIS-
CHARGE SACRED INESCAPABLE RESPONSIBILITIES BEFORE GOD
AND MAN.
BAHA'I INTERNATIONAL COMMUNITY
January 7, 1982
INFORMATION JUST RECEIVED SIX MEMBERS LOCAL SPIRITUAL
ASSEMBLY TEHERAN TOGETHER WITH WOMAN BELIEVER IN
WHOSE HOME ARRESTS WERE MADE ON SECOND NOVEMBER
WERE SECRETLY EXECUTED ON FOUR.TH JANUARY. INFOR-
MATION OBTAINED FORTUITOUSLY
BY RELATIVES FRIENDS
MARTYRS. NAMES THESE VALIANT SOULS ARE:
MR KURUSH TALAI
MR KHUSRA W MUHANDISI
MR ISKANDAR AZIZ!
MR FATHULLAH FIRDAWSI
MR ATAULLAH YAVARI
MRS SHIVA MAHMUD! ASADULLAH-ZADIH
HOSTESS: MRS SHIDRUKH AMIR-KIYA BAQA

(l_J))
"t:.,v1r
tJ(,lJAJ,;:
·-
.;, JS i, ! ,J,Js,ol..:iJljj
,
,~
,;;1,,:...1 J,;J.r'.
J J,i,•T J.J' ,),\
,,,,,
..>~cl''.,)
• . '
-
• r~
,.,i.:.-u,,.JA.,;,(J" b ..;::..Jj,·w~,,
L~.,,.Y •>
.
...
t' I
-,,·
•
,.
_"( I
~1'1
_,1•J',,1.;,v;li5, t'"L ,,.,.
~CJ._,..,,_
C;:.
-
,rn
.., ✓--- • ,
'
I
II
-
.I,
'?rit...::;,J.,ldJ ~'>o {:.;.lt~.L'.2-_;.~
.
.
·•''\f,"1.1,(J\· o, i:~ ~
...........
..,..,
. .)_;
G.>Jd'T
1.-,,v11Y
•• ~,-· •
•
•
I ,I
,-, _;:I / J • (:..I
() ,-, ,
CJ';,.J<:.JCl(j __ ,...,, ; -':! ...:;,fd-1.;-'C/-/'d''
-
. ..-:
o/ 1/. ('
/.-1 ~(VJ/.'", ....!
,.t I
.
./
. CI· ,,
~,1,~,,;.!d<,/
LI
Instruction
given
by
the
headmaster
of
"Rahnama' i Kuy-i-Maskan va Shahrsazi", dated
13.7.1360 (5 October 1981)
Emblem of the Islamic Republic of Iran
Ministry of Education, Department of Education,
Province of Yazd
This is to certify that Nadir Baqiri Qalat Pa'in,
son of Muhammad, l.D. card No. 226-1346, who
has been a student of this school in the academic
year of 1360/61 (1981/82) and who has been
studying until 13.7.1360 (5 October 1981), is now
forbidden to study in this school because of his
being a Baha'i. This decision is in accordance with
the circular letter dated 12.7.1360 (4 October
198 I), No. 28664, issued by the Education office
of the province of Yazd.
(signed),
Headmaster of the school, Ahmad Zamani
Facsimile of the original Persian (with English translation) of a typical expulsion order
dismissing a Baha'i child from school as a result of his refusal to recant his Faith. The order
indicates the fate of thousands of Baha'i children.

STOP PRESS
February 4, 1982 (Press Release from Strasbourg)
Parliamentary Assembly of Council of Europe Adopts
Resolution Calling on Iran to Grant Freedom of Religion to
Baha'is
A TWO-HOUR DEBATE ON PERSECUTIONS IN IRAN TOOK PLACE
ON FRIDAY, 29 JANUARY 1982, IN THE PARLIAMENTARY ASSEM-
BLY OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE. THE DEBATE CULMINATED IN
THE UNANIMOUS ADOPTION OF ~ RESOLUTION CALLING UPON
THE GOVERNMENT
OF IRAN TO EXTEND CONSTITUTIONAL
GUARANTEES TO THE BAHA'I COMMUNITY OF THAT COUNTRY.
THE RESOLUTION ALSO CALLED ON THE GOVERNMENTS OF THE
TWENTY-ONE MEMBER STATES OF THE COUNCIL OF EUROPE TO
USE EVERY OPPORTUNITY,
INCLUDING
EUROPEAN COMMU-
NITY AND UNITED NATIONS CHANNELS, TO CONVINCE THE
IRANIAN GOVERNMENT OF THE NECESSITY TO RESPECT INTER-
NATIONAL CONVENTIONS TO WHICH IT IS A PARTY.
IN SUMMING
UP THE DEBATE, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE
POLITICAL AFFAIRS COMMITTEE CONGRATULATED
THE RAP-
PORTEUR ON HIS FINE REPORT ANDSAIDTHATTHENUMBEROF
SPEAKERS, IN A DEBATE WHICH HAD BEEN ESSENTIALLY NON-
POLITICAL (IT HAD DEALT PRIMARILY WITH RELIGIOUS PERSE-
CUTION), WAS EXTREMELY UNUSUAL AND TESTIFIED TO THE
HORROR AND REVULSION FELT BY THE ASSEMBLY AT THE
MASSIVE PERSECUTION OF THE BAHA'IS IN IRAN.

Why is the largest religious minority in Iran
denied legal status and human rights?
Why are its Holy Places and humanitarian
institutions destroyed or seized?
Why are the homes, farms and possessions
of its members looted, burned, stolen?
Why are its children refused education and
hounded by school authorities?
Why are the Baha'fs in Iran imprisoned,
tortured, executed, murdered in terrible
ways without fair trial?
Why do Baha 'fs choose to die rather than
deny their Faith?
Are these innocent victims important to a
world struggling to survive?
A Cry from the Heart gives powerful
evidence and frank replies.
William Sears, author, humorist, and former TV star,
is one of the most distinguished Baha'is. He knew
most of the martyrs he describes and the places where
they lived. No one asked him to write this book. It is
unofficial. It is his personal cry of indignation at what
is happening to the Baha'is of Iran. He thinks you
should know about them.
ISBN 0-85398-134-S
GEORGERONALD·OXFORD