THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1989-10-26

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we enclose a copy of a new compilation entitled Conservation of  the

Earth’s Resources, which was prepared by the research department at the

ing the friends in responding to the call, in the ri¤ván message, for an

increase in bahá’í activities aimed at supporting endeavors to protect the

environment.76-1

The compilation was assembled, primarily, to deepen the believers’ ap-

preciation of the bahá’í concept of nature and to enhance their understand-

ing of both man’s relationship to nature and his responsibility to preserve the world’s ecological balance. it could also serve as a valuable tool for use

with non-b ahá’ís who have some knowledge of the bahá’í faith and its

approach to the solution of pressing social problems.

Assemblies will make the material in the compilation available to the believ-ers and that, armed with increased knowledge of this important subject, the friends will be inspired to lend their assistance to those who are striving to

make this world “an earthly paradise.”

76-2

with great pleasure the house of justice takes this opportunity to an-

nounce the establishment of an office of the environment, which will

conduct the external relations of the bahá’í international community with

regard to environmental matters. Thus it will foster relations with the world

wide fund for Nature and other like-minded nongovernmental organiza-

76-1. The compilation is too lengthy to include here; see cc 1, pp. 65–92.

76-2. Sw Ab, no. 220.1.76.1

76.2

76.3

76.4

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

15tions and will work in collaboration with the office of Social and economic

development. The new office operates alongside the other offices of the

bahá’í international community in New york, namely, the united Nations

office and the o ffice of p ublic i nformation.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat

77

Appointment of New Continental Counselor

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]