THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1997-01-28

iran that mr. dhabí¥u’lláh ma¥ramí and mr. músá øálibí, both of whom

had been condemned to death for apostasy and had appealed against their

unjust sentences, have been notified that the Supreme court of iran has

confirmed the death sentences imposed by the r evolutionary courts.

This news was received by relatives of mr. ma¥ramí and mr. øálibí dur-

ing prison visits. it has been the practice of the iranian authorities to convey

verdicts orally to prisoners, and not to give them a copy of the actual text of the court decision.

A worrying development is that mr. øálibí, until now in prison in i¦fahán,

has been transferred to the notorious evin prison in øihrán. Similarly,

mr. ma¥ramí has been moved within yazd, from the prison of the revo-

lutionary court to that of the Security and i nformation d epartment. . . .

our letters of 2 April 1996 and 27 September 1996 give details of the

cases of mr. ma¥ramí and mr. øálibí respectively, and the update on the

situation in iran sent by the united Nations office of the bahá’í inter-

national community earlier this month provides further information. we

have recently received the following personal details from the friends in

iran. mr. ma¥ramí is married and has four children, three daughters, two

married and one unmarried, and one unmarried son; mr. øálibí is in his

mid sixties, is married and has a family of adult children, two of whom live in canada, one in Australia and the others in the family’s home town of

víláshahr, i¦fahán.

There are two more bahá’ís presently under the death sentence in iran

because of their beliefs, mr. kayván khalajábádí and mr. bihnám mítháqí,

who were first arrested in 1989, and have been kept in prison in suspense since that time.

Department  of tHe secretariat239.1

239.2

239.3

239.4

239.5

1996–2000  •  T h e  f o u r  Ye a r  Pl a n

557240

Call for Contributions to the Bahá'í International Fund

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]