B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Baha'i-
Inspired
Perspectives
on Human
Rights
Foreword by:
Albert Lincoln
Edited by:
Tahirih
Tahririha-Danesh
J
U
X
T
A

P
U
B
L
I
S
I
H
I
N
G
With contributions by:
Kiser Barnes
Greg Duly
Cheshmak
Farhoumand-Sims
Nazila
Ghanea-Hercock
Graham Hassall
Darren Hedley
Chichi Layor
Michael L. Penn
Martha L. Schweitz

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bahá’í-Inspired
Perpectives on
Human Rights
With contributions from:
Kiser Barnes
Greg Duly
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims
Graham Hassall
Darren Hedley
Nazila Ghanea-Hercock
Chichi Layor
Michael L. Penn
Martha L. Schweitz
BOOKS FOR
THE W
RLD
O
THIS BOOK IS DISTRBUTED AS PART
OF THE  BOOKS FOR THE WORLD
SERIES FROM JUXTA PUBLISHING
LIMITED (HONG KONG)
Foreword by:
Albert Lincoln
Edited by:
Tahirih Tahririha-Danesh

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
BOOKS FOR
THE W
RLD
O
The Books for the World series aims
to bring diverse literature to people
around the world by directing all
proceeds from sale of a title into
donating the same title to people who
otherwise could not afford it as well
as offering library donation programs
and free electronic books which can
be used for local printing and
distribution.
At this time, the following programs
are part of the Books for the World
series:
Free Book Distribution Program:
Juxta Publishing prints
selected book titles for sale to
subsidize the cost of free
distribution of the same titles
worldwide.
World Library Donation Program:
Juxta Publishing makes
selected titles available to
National Bahá’í Communities,
Local Bahá’í Communities and
Bahá’í Groups which would
like to donate the books to
their local libraries.
Royalty-free E-books Program:
Juxta Publishing produces
e-books which can be freely
downloaded and printed for
local non-commercial use.
www.juxta.com
© 2001, Juxta Publishing Limited.
This electronic edition is prepared with the
consent of the original authors; all articles
first appear in this volume. The copyright
of individual articles remains with the
authors; the articles are included in this
volume with the permission of the
individual authors. Requests to reproduce
individual articles should be directed in
writing to the authors directly or to Juxta
Publishing Limited. Requests to reproduce
this entire volume outside the provisions
outlined below should be directed in
writing to Juxta Publishing Limited.
This electronic edition has been produced
to facilitate widespread distribution and
use of this book and it may be freely
redistributed in electronic form so long as
the following conditions are met:
1. The contents of this file are not altered.
2. This copyright and redistribution notice
remains intact
3. No charges are made or monies
collected for the redistribution of this work
In addition, this file may be printed
without alteration for personal and
academic use in course settings in non-
bound formats; copies printed for this
purpose may not be distributed commer-
cially. In cases of academic use in course
settings, charges may be made for
reproduction costs but no additional
monies may be collected. Any other
printing, in bound or non-bound formats,
or redistribution in printed form is
forbidden without the expressed written
consent of Juxta Publishing Limited.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
To Ugo Giachery & Mildred Mottahedeh
As a token of our love and gratitude

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
I would like to thank the Spiritual Assembly of the Baha’is of Hong Kong for
their kind cooperation and assistance with the review of this publication. In par-
ticular, I wish to extend my heart-felt appreciation to Mr. Paul D. Reynolds for
facilitating this process.
I am deeply grateful as well to Dr. Albert Lincoln for providing a thought-pro-
voking and insightful foreword to this e-book.
Credit must also be given where it is due. This book is the fruit of the efforts of
its contributors. It is my honor to have facilitated the publication of their articles in
this inaugural volume and I sincerely thank them for their selfless spirit of scholar-
ship.
Last but not least, I wish to thank Mrs. Michele L. Danesh and my dear husband,
Mr. Arman E. Danesh, for their assistance with the editorial and technical aspects in
the production of this volume.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Foreword Albert Lincoln .................................................................................7
Introduction ................................................................................................................................. 11
The Articles.................................................................................................................................. 15
The Contributors .......................................................................................................................18
Human Rights and Multiculturalism Kiser Barnes ........................................... 21
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child: Implications for
Children’s Participation in the Bahá’í Community Greg Duly............................38
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural
Relativism and the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims .........................................................................64
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights: State Sovereignty as
Smokescreen or Necessary Partner in Securing Human
Rights? Nazila Ghanea-Hercock .....................................................................90
Rights to Human and Social Development: A Survey of the
Activities of the Bahá’í International Community
Graham Hassall ......................................................................................... 102
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to
Contribute: a Case Study from Zambia Darren Hedley ...................................123
Bringing Rights Home: Human Rights and the Institution
of the Family Chichi Layor...........................................................................143
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development, and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
Michael L. Penn ......................................................................................... 162
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order:
From “Me” to “Us”—Confronting the Fear
Martha L. Schweitz ..................................................................................... 189
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Tahirih Tahririha-Danesh ............................................................................ 216

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
FOREWORD
FOREWORD
Bahá’í-Inspired Perspectives on Human Rights
A bibliographical review1 indicates that the earliest use of the terminology of
human rights in publications by Bahá’í institutions coincided with the inception of
their official relationship with the United Nations. In fact, three of the first four
documents 2 submitted to the newly established international organization in 1947
and 1948 were statements on various aspects of this subject intended as contribu-
tions to the preparatory work on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.3 The
first of these was an eight-page statement entitled “A Bahá’í Declaration of Human
Obligations and Rights”, which was presented to the Human Rights Commission in
February 1947 on behalf of eight national Bahá’í administrative bodies.  During the
sixties and seventies, this statement was reprinted a number of times and supple-
mented by others with such titles as “Human Rights: Basis for World Peace”, “Hu-
man Rights are God-Given Rights” and “Divine Law, Source of Human Rights”.
The first attempt at an analytic approach by an individual believer appears to be
Philip Hainsworth’s Bahá’í Focus on Human Rights, a 64-page booklet published in
1985, which may be viewed as the antecedent of the present volume.
While these early publications were clearly stimulated by developments out-
side the Bahá’í community and employed a pre-existing vocabulary, certain distinc-
tive elements can be identified in the approach adopted, reflecting an effort to root
it in the teachings of the Bahá’í religion. This was done primarily by reference to the
basic concept that every person is an essentially spiritual being endowed by the
Creator with talents and capacities, and that the purpose of life is to realize that
potential for the benefit of society as well as the individual concerned. The equal
dignity of all human beings and the need for both solidarity and legal equality among
them are clearly posited in many passages of the Bahá’í sacred scriptures. Further-
more, these ideas are encapsulated in the concept of the “oneness of mankind”,
which is described as the “pivot round which all the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh re-
volve”.4 From these elements, the early literature derived two key principles:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
FOREWORD
-
To the extent that human rights refer to conditions of existence that are
necessary to enable human beings to realize the purpose of their existence,
one may infer that such rights have a source in the Divine Will.
-
To avoid nurturing a sense of personal entitlement that is fundamentally
selfish and anti-social, there must be a clear linkage and a proper balance
between rights and privileges, on the one hand, and obligations and responsi-
bilities, on the other.
While neither of these ideas broke totally new ground, each challenged to some
extent the secular liberalism of Western culture, which was clearly the dominant
influence in the framing of the Universal Declaration.
Another point is worth making, if only because cynics may be quick to attribute
to mere expediency any interest in human rights manifested by a religious commu-
nity that represents one-thousandth part of the world population and is a minority
nearly everywhere.5 In actual fact, the primary substantive focus of the human rights
discourse of the Bahá’í community, as reflected in the early literature, was racial and
gender equality. The writers made it quite clear that it was not their purpose to
advocate any particular course of action, but rather to demonstrate that the Bahá’í
Faith could make a contribution to questions of topical interest. Only after the
recrudescence of active persecution directed against the Bahá’í community in Iran
did religious liberty emerge as a significant theme in this discourse.
Bahá’í discourse on human rights has matured considerably since those early
days. It has been enriched as much by the continuing struggle with systematic re-
pression, experienced directly by the Bahá’ís of Iran and vicariously by their fellow
believers around the world, as by the publication of a book on freedom of religion6
and a number of articles7 and statements examining different aspects of the subject.
The thought-provoking pieces collected in this virtual volume will propel it for-
ward another stage.
Without in any way diminishing the credit due to those who have labored to
bring forth this important new publication, it is not inappropriate to remind our-
selves that much remains to be done. On the one hand, the subject of the rights and
obligations of human beings is as vast and as intricate as it is critical to the future of
the planet. On the other, the Bahá’í revelation is replete with fresh insights on the
nature of the human being, of civilization and of the interactive relationship be-
tween the individual and his or her social environment. Bahá’u’lláh consciously set
out to provide a spiritually-based legal framework for a new civilization, albeit in
seminal form, and there are innumerable passages in the Bahá’í scriptures which
speak in the language of rights and obligations. In a summary of the principal teach-
ings of the Bahá’í Faith during a talk given in Philadelphia in 1912, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá
stated:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
FOREWORD
Bahá’u’lláh taught that an equal standard of human rights must be recognized and adopted.
In the estimation of God, all men are equal; there is no distinction or preferment for any
soul in the dominion of His justice and equity.8
In our ongoing exploration of various facets of this complex subject, it is
important that due attention continue to be devoted to human rights principles
as they apply within the Bahá’í community. We may take some comfort in the
fact that the unique legal and institutional structure that forms an integral part of
this religion provides safeguards against the kinds of gross abuse that have
blackened the annals of past centuries, as well as in the likelihood that it will
be a long time indeed before Bahá’í institutions wield temporal power. Shoghi
Effendi’s warnings against the proliferation of detailed regulations at this early
stage in the development of the Bahá’í administrative order should also be
borne in mind. Nonetheless, it may well be that the healthy development and
continued vitality of Bahá’í communities will depend on an ever-deeper un-
derstanding of the distinctive approach to individual rights and responsibili-
ties mandated by the Bahá’í teachings.9
In any case, as the Bahá’í community emerges from obscurity, the world at
large will increasingly weigh the credibility of its human rights discourse and
the value of its contribution on matters of general interest against the actual
performance of Bahá’í communities in the management of their internal affairs.
Our collective pursuit of excellence in this critical area can be powerfully
assisted by the work of scholars and thinkers such as those who have contrib-
uted to this commendable undertaking.
Dr. Albert Lincoln
Footnotes
Based on Collins, W. P. (1990). Bibliography of English-Language Works on the Bábí and Bahá’í
Faiths, 1844-1985. Oxford, United Kingdom: George Ronald.
The fourth was the response of Shoghi Effendi Rabbani, Head of the Bahá’í Faith, to letter from
the United Nations Special Committee in Palestine asking his position on the future of the Holy
Land. See The Bahá’í Relationship with the United Nations. (1956) The Bahá’í World, vol. XII.
Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 597.
The drafting, which began in early 1947, was completed in June 1948, and the Declaration was
adopted on 10 December 1948.
Shoghi Effendi (1955). The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publishing Trust. p. 42.
The only exceptions being a few small villages in remote areas of the third world.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
FOREWORD
Bahiyyih Tahzib (1995). Freedom of Religion or Belief: Ensuring Effective International Legal
Protection. The Hague, The Netherlands: Kluwerlaw International.
E.g., Matthew Weinberg (1998). The Human Rights Discourse: A Bahá’í Perspective. The Bahá’í
World 1996-97. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications. pp. 247-273.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1982). Promulgation of Universal Peace . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í  Publishing Trust. p.
182.
See letter from the Universal House of Justice to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United
States of America dated 29 December 1988, published separately as Universal House of Justice
(1989). Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í  Publish-
ing Trust.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
INTRODUCTION
INTRODUCTION
The discipline of human rights is a colorful arena filled with various per-
spectives and experiences. Some argue that the quest for human rights has been
present “at every stage of history”1 while others see the discipline as a more
recent phenomenon. What stands clear is the fact that the conscious process of
recognizing the need for human rights for the entire planet began in 1948, with
the establishment of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.2 As one of the
first collective expressions of an international community, the Declaration was
conceived after the atrocities of the two World Wars, which left no room for a
bewildered humanity to continue its sufferings in the face of ongoing crimes
and violations.3
This body of articles represents an expression of a collective desire to value
human life and preserve its dignity and development. Eleanor Roosevelt, per-
haps the most prominent figure in the conception of this Declaration,4 called it
“the international Magna Carta of all men everywhere”5 Many rejoiced at the
accomplishment of this “epoch-making event.”6 The Universal Declaration, com-
bined with the subsequent Covenants on Civil and Political Rights, and Eco-
nomic, Social and Cultural Rights represent the basic standards for the protection
and development of human life regardless of race, religion, gender or class.
Human Rights are a combination of individual and collective values and
standards that may be viewed as a response to human needs. They are “a com-
mon standard of achievement for all peoples and all nations.”7 As explained by
the Bahá’í International Community, “a human right is an expression of man’s
divine endowment given social status by a moral and sovereign body. A right
attains social status only after it has become a moral value asserted and main-
tained as a necessary quality of human relationships by the members of the
community.”9 Their universalization offers a pattern for attitudes and actions
that are conducive to preservation of “justice, progress and peace”8 for all hu-
manity.
Over the past century, the Bahá’í community has played an active role in the
promotion of universal spiritual verities that enhance a culture of human rights.
One of the most prominent features of this active role is the introduction and
integration of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings to the discipline of human rights. With the
presentation of A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights in 1947, the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
INTRODUCTION
Bahá’i International Community began its contribution to the rising United Na-
tions and its agencies in upholding human rights as an essential feature of gov-
ernance in the global community. Having released scores of statements on
various aspects of human rights from a Bahá’i perspective, the Bahá’i community
favors one main approach to the promotion and protection of human rights, that
of education.
As debates on emerging dimensions of human rights continue, one may pause to
reflect on exploring a Bahá’í-inspired perspective. Based on the body of Sa-
cred Writings of the Bahá’í Faith, documents by the Bahá’í International Com-
munity, contributions by authors and scholars in human rights and related fields,
we may enhance our understanding of the relation between the Revelation of
Bahá’u’lláh and the discipline of human rights. Such a comprehensive approach
is an integral part of enhancing human rights discourse as explained by the
Bahá’í International Community:
Concern for human rights can be found throughout the Bahá’í Writings. Bahá’u’lláh, urges the
rulers of the earth to “rule with justice … safeguard the rights of the down-trodden, and
punish the wrong-doers.”10 In The Promulgation of Universal Peace, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá empha-
sizes the importance of educating for human rights: “Bahá’u’lláh taught that an equal stan-
dard of human rights must be recognized and adopted” and, “there shall be an equality of
rights and prerogatives for all mankind.” Shoghi Effendi, in the World Order of Bahá’ u’ lláh,
stresses that “[t]he unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, implies the estab-
lishment of a world commonwealth in which …. the autonomy of its state members and
the personal freedom and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely
and completely safeguarded.” Moreover, in The Promise of World Peace, the Universal
House of Justice underscores the importance of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights and its related conventions, asserting that “all such measures, if courageously en-
forced and expanded, will advance the day when the specter of war will have lost its
power to dominate international relations.”9
It is in light of the above that from the earliest days of the Bahá’í Faith, its
community of followers has made every effort to help establish a global commu-
nity committed to the protection of universal human rights. As the Bahai Interna-
tional Community continues its services to the peoples of the world, the
promotion of human rights and human rights education evolves into a perma-
nent feature of the efforts by its institutions and supporters. The formal state-
ment on The Work of Bahá’ís in Promotion of Human Rights published in 1948,
demonstrates the dedication of the Bahá’í community to the integration of hu-
man rights in every aspect of global community life.11

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
INTRODUCTION
With a fresh wave of persecution against the Bahá’ís in Iran during the latter
years of the Twentieth Century, the Bahá’í International Community once again
intensified its efforts to help restore the rights of the Iranian Bahá’ís. But more
importantly, it reaffirmed the Bahá’í commitment to the promotion of human
rights through education “as the essential factor in eradicating prejudice”11
deemed as a root-cause of intolerance, based on religion, race or gender.
When in 1994 UNESCO launched a Decade for Human Rights Education, the
Bahá’í International Community welcomed the proclamation and stated “Education
which instills in hearts and minds an awareness of and a sensitivity to the human
rights of all persons constitutes, in our opinion, an essential tool for the promotion
and implementation of international human rights standards.” One of the main
goals of the decade-long campaign is to advance “the fabric of rights knowledge”12
and enrich the grassroots level with a new understanding that “education shall be
directed to the full development of the human personality and to the strengthening
of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms.”13
Human rights education is perceived as “a young academic venture”14 and an
organic process focusing on the holistic development of the internal realities of man
with the advancement of the world at large.  Part of this process relies upon the
Plan of Action brought forth by the Decade for Human Rights Education:
i.
Strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms
ii. Developing the human personality and the sense of dignity
iii. Promoting understanding, tolerance, gender equality, and friendship among
nations, indigenous people, racial, ethnic, religious, and linguistic groups
iv. Enabling all peoples to operate effectively in a free society
v. Furthering the activities of the UN in peace maintenance
From a Bahá’í perspective, Human Rights Education is a process of transforma-
tion of thoughts, values and attitudes.  To affect any degree of transformation, it is
essential to create a new mindset in accordance with the realities of life at this
juncture in human history. The essence of such perspective “derives directly
from Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of humanity as one people.”15 The recognition of the
oneness of humankind, the Bahá’í Writings suggest, is the most potent means of
emancipating humanity from oppressive forces that have made human rights a
universal longing.
It is in light of such understanding that the present volume was launched. To
maximize the impact of this important work, a selected number of individuals
were invited to contribute to the first volume of this publication. After careful

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
INTRODUCTION
review and consultation ten articles on various aspects of human rights by a
diverse group of scholars from Africa, Asia, Australia, America and Europe
formed the inaugural edition of this e-book. Inspired by the universal truths
embedded in all Sacred Scriptures, including the body of Bahá’í Writings, and
a wide range of experiences, the contributors explore a number of important
topics form their own individual perspective. Some of the articles describe
findings from practical and personal experiences, while others address the
conceptual framework that enriches the debates in human rights. All are of-
fered in a spirit of service and in order to further our collective understanding
of this field through a process of progressive reflection and integration of the
spiritual and the scientific. Accordingly, this collection grants a nascent format
for a collaborative and insightful dialogue among members and friends of the
Bahá’í Faith centered on the overarching principles of Bahá’u’lláh’s Revelation
in making human rights a universal reality.
Footnotes
Ishay, M. R. (1997). The Human Rights Reader: Major Political Essays, Speeches, and Documents
from the Bible to the Present. New York, NY: Routledge, p. xiii.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 1 at www.un.org/Overview/rights.html.
See Bahá’í International Community (February 1947) A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations
and Rights. Presented to the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human
Rights, Lake Success, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #47-0200).
Bahá’í International Community (2000). Human Rights Education: An External Affairs Initiative.
See section 4 on Human Rights Education Resources.
Lauren, P. G. (1998). The Evolution of International Human Rights: Visions Seen. Philadelphia,
PA: University of Pennsylvania. p. 237.
Bahá’u’lláh (1972). Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre. p. 11.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
Thuynsma, P., Thuynsma, H. (1998). Human Rights Education: The Humanizing of a Global Society.
In Danieli, Y. Stamatopoulou, E.,  Dias, C. J. (1998). The Universal Declaration of Human Rights:
Fifty Years and Beyond. Amityville, NY: Baywood Publishing Company. p. 253.
For a discussion see the United nations Resolution establishing the UN Decade for Human
Rights Education.
10 Thuynsma, P., Thuynsma, H. p. 256
11 See Bahá’í International Community. Processes of Development: The Bahá’í Approach.
www.bahai.org/article-1-8-1-2.html.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE ARTICLES
THE ARTICLES
The first article, by Kiser Barnes, was presented at the “First International Con-
ference On Human Rights” in Brazil. Exploring the applicability of the International
Bill of Rights in light of universality and multiculturalism, he presents a framework
for human rights that is based on the all-encompassing principle of the essential
oneness of humankind as expressed in the Bahá’í Writings. He also addresses the
role of all principles in defining the laws that govern the field of human rights,
including those derived from the core of religious teachings and the unification of
humankind as the matrix for the universal enjoyment of human rights in a
multicultural world.
Greg Duly looks at the rights and responsibilities of children within the Bahá’í
community in light of the Bahá’í teachings, the Universal Declaration on Human
Rights and the Convention on the Rights of the Children. Viewing rights as spiritual
in nature, he examines a variety of sources that support the approach of developing
the latent capacities in children through participatory approaches, highlighting their
role as unifiers and supporters of peace and security in the global society. He pre-
sents a number of recommendations as to how better relate to children and further
facilitate their development as “a new race of men.”
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims discusses the dynamics of persecution for a reli-
gious minority in its land of origin. She points out the historical and ideological
elements of this case and the need for the Iranian government to uphold the stan-
dards set in the Articles of the Universal Declaration, which it is a party to. She also
explores some Christian and Islamic notions of human rights and their relationship
to the current human rights regime. Finally, she stresses the need for the UN to
increase its efforts in the area of human rights education aimed at all strata of hu-
man society, as a primary means of enforcing human rights standards.
Nazila Ghanea-Hercock focuses on the protection of human rights in the light
of infringements within the domestic sphere of sovereign states. She outlines three
types of challenge resulting from the interactions between the international and the
national levels. Whilst the sovereign state system is regarded as being indispensable
to the present operation of human rights, it becomes clear that it is also the prime
barrier to the wider success of the human rights project. Expanding on a Bahá’í
understanding of the relationship between rights and both internal and external
sovereignty, she points out the need to explore the intricacies of a mechanism that

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE ARTICLES
will help increase state accountability and responsibility to make rights an essential
aspect of life for all people.
Next, Graham Hassall examines the short and fruitful history of the Bahá’i In-
ternational Community and its contributions to the emergence of rights to human
and social development. He characterizes these contributions since 1948 as prin-
cipled, systematic and sustained. Expanding on the above, he investigates the con-
ceptions in various statements by the Bahá’í International Community, in particular
“The Prosperity of Humankind”, which point to the specific observations, recom-
mendations and contributions of this body to the United Nations and the interna-
tional community for the advancement of human rights.
Drawing upon practical experience gained through involvement in a poverty
reduction program in Africa, Darren Hedley illustrates some of the relationships
between rights and responsibilities of participants in development work in peri-
urban Zambia. He endorses capacity building as the essence of policies and pro-
grams aimed at true development and observes some of the challenges and benefits
of such approach through overcoming cultural divides in engaging local residents as
active participants of the project. By sharing his experiences, he guides the reader to
understanding the importance of eradicating the extremes of wealth and poverty as
an integral part of ending human rights violations.
Chichi Layor looks at the vital need to strengthen the relationship between
promotion and protection of human rights and the institution of family, as “the
natural and fundamental group unit of society.” She illustrates the function of those
rights pertaining to this institution within the current framework of human rights.
Exploring the reasons for her chosen topic, she presents specific Bahá’í principles
that support the need for family rights, primarily those of unity and equality and
their implications in relation to familial roles. Furthermore, the author analyzes the
contributions of family rights to the enhancement of a culture of rights within the
society at large.
Michael L. Penn examines the international effort to eradicate violence against
women and girls from a historical perspective and suggests that while significant
advancements have been made in articulating laws that are essential to the protec-
tion of women and girls against human rights abuses, far too little attention has thus
far been given to the inner psychological and spiritual dimensions of the problem.
This paper thus reviews some of the most important legal and human rights devel-
opments that have taken place over the course of the last century, while at the
same time examines the need for educational processes that address the inner do-
main of human moral, psychological and spiritual development if the campaign to
eradicate gender-based violence is to be met with success.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE ARTICLES
Martha L. Schweitz draws on her observations of the cultural differences between
Japan and the United States to reflect on the relationship between rights and re-
sponsibilities in light of societal norms. Furthermore, she juxtaposes the liberal
philosophy of rights with principles in the Bahá’í Writings and enriches the debate on
promoting the good of both the individual and society, by suggesting the need to
examine entrenched assumptions and to transcend contemporary understandings
of self. She affirms the Bahá’í commitment to human rights as spiritual in nature
and as essential for the advancement of civilization, through a blending of Eastern
and Western ideals that are often viewed as incompatible.
The right to education is an essential element of universal human rights. Over
the past century and half a main feature of the persecution of the Bahá’í community
in Iran has involved the removal of their right to education. The shut down of
various Bahá’í schools throughout the country, or the expulsion and exclusion of
Bahá’í students from public schools, colleges and universities in Iran, most recently
since the 1979 revolution, has presented grave difficulties for the Baha’is in Iran. In
a brief article, Tahirih Tahririha-Danesh presents a few observations about the
importance of education in both Islamic and Bahá’í Sacred scriptures and the need
for the international community to put an end to the Islamic Republic’s goal to
block the progress of the Baha’is in Iran by any means, including the basic right to
education.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE CONTRIBUTORS
THE CONTRIBUTORS
Kiser Barnes is currently a member of the Universal House of Justice, the inter-
national governing body of the Bahá’í community. His contributions have enriched
the work of institutions such as the International Teaching Centre, one of the main
organs at the Bahá’í World Centre, the Board of Continental Counsellors and its
Auxiliary Board for Africa, as well as the National Spiritual Assembly of Benin. His
experience in the area of human rights stem from his work as a civil rights lawyer in
the United States of America, his directorship for Community Relations of the
Maryland Human Rights Commission, as well as the Equal Employment Opportu-
nity Commission’s Maryland Affirmative Action Program. Mr. Barnes’s academic
achievements include: Senior Lecturer, Faculty of Law, Obafemi Awolowo Univer-
sity, Ife, Nigeria; and Professor at Charles Hamilton Houston Lectures in Human
Rights, Faculty of Law, Universite du Benin in Lome, Togo. Having published a
number of children’s books, Mr. Barnes is also interested in the promotion of litera-
ture aimed at the moral education of children.
Greg Duly moved to Africa, with his family in 1982 where he served on the
National Spiritual Assemblies of the Bahá’í community of Mali (1985 to 1988),
Zambia (1994 to 1997) and Rwanda (1998 and 1999). He has worked for the Non
Governmental Organization, CARE International, as Deputy Director and Director
in the above-mentioned countries as well as Kenya. Currently, he lives in Uganda
where he works as Director for Save the Children based in United Kingdom. Most
recently, he completed his graduate studies at Landegg International University in
the field of Consultation and Conflict Resolution. His thesis, “Creating a Violence-
Free Society: The Case for Rwanda,” has been published by the Journal of Humani-
tarian Assistance for their feature on “The Future of the African Great Lakes Region”
which can be located at www.jha.ac.
Cheshmak Farhoumand-Sims holds a B.A. degree in peace and conflict studies,
a M.Sc. degree in conflict analysis and resolution and is currently a Ph.D. candidate
in Political Science at York University, Canada. Her dissertation is entitled “Imple-
menting Universal Values in a Multicultural World: The UN and Protecting the
Rights of Women.” She has studied at the European Peace University in Austria,
participated in the UN graduate studies program at the United Nations in Geneva,
and has worked as an intern at the Institute for Multi-Track Diplomacy in Wash-
ington DC, United States and the International Service for Human Rights in Geneva,
Switzerland.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE CONTRIBUTORS
Graham Hassall is the Associate Dean for Undergraduate Studies at Landegg
International University in Switzerland. He has degrees in education (B. Ed) and
history (B.A. Hon, Ph.D.). From 1990 to 2000 he was Research Fellow and Director
of the Asia-Pacific program in the Centre for Comparative Constitutional Studies,
at the University of Melbourne Law School. He has a particular interest in electoral
systems, conflict resolution, and methods of constitutional dialogue and change. In
recent years he has been an official observer at general elections in Cambodia (1998)
and Indonesia (1999), and in 1999 undertook research on governance issues in Papua
New Guinea, Philippines, and Japan.
Darren Hedley has worked with an international Non Governmental Organiza-
tion in Zambia for the past seven years, as manager of poverty reduction programs,
and recently as director of Urban INSAKA, a regional research, training and
consultancy unit. With a background in community development, resource man-
agement and international policy, Mr. Hedley is currently pursuing a Ph.D. at the
School for Policy Studies, University of Bristol, UK, focusing on intersectoral policy
networks for urban water and sanitation in Africa. His previous work experience
includes community development work in Sri Lanka, Costa Rica, health promotion
work with a First Nation organization in Canada, and two years of working on
health research and AIDS programs in Russia.
Nazila Ghanea-Hercock is a lecturer in international law and human rights and
Convenor of the M.A. in Understanding and Securing Human Rights at the Institute
of Commonwealth Studies, University of London. A graduate of the University of
Leeds and Keele University, her doctorate addressed “The interaction between the
UN human rights machinery and the Bahá’ís in Iran (1980-1998).” Her publications
to date have addressed freedom of religion or belief, religious minorities in Iran, and
apostasy and human rights law.
Chichi Layor holds a Masters degree in the Theory and Practice of Human Rights
from University of Essex Human Rights Centre, in Colchester, Essex, United King-
dom. She currently works on refugee issues. Other organizations with which she
has worked include: One World Trust and All Party Parliamentary Group for World
Government, Institute for War and Peace Reporting in United Kingdom, the Office
of Social and Economic Development, Bahai World Centre in Israel and Guardian
Newspapers Limited in Nigeria. Ms. Okoye is the author of Break Every Rule by
Delta Publications (Nigeria), 1989, and Leopards, Oracles and Long Horns by Pan-
ther Creek Press (USA), 2001.
Michael L. Penn is an Associate Professor of Psychology at Franklin and Marshall
College in the United States and Landegg International University in Switzerland.
He holds a B.A. degree in psychology, history and religion from the University of
Pennsylvania and Ph.D. Degree from Temple University in Clinical Psychology. He

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
THE CONTRIBUTORS
has published a number of articles in the fields of clinical and cross-cultural psy-
chology. He is a Ford Foundation Doctoral Fellow (1986-1989) and Aspin Institute
Wye Faculty Fellow (1995). His contributions to the Bahá’í community in recent
years include service as a member of the Auxiliary Board to the Continental Coun-
sellors in the Americas, lectures at the Wilmette Institute, and active support of
Bahá’í-inspired academic conferences and publications.
Martha L. Schweitz is a lawyer (J.D. 1981, New York University School of Law)
who practiced international business law for several years before becoming a law
professor at the University of Oregon. She lived in Japan for 11 years, working first
as a Fulbright lecturer and then as a professor in the Seinan Gakuin University Law
Faculty in Fukuoka. Her teaching areas include international organizations, human
rights, and international economic law. Her field of academic scholarship and of
public service is the relationship between intergovernmental organizations and civil
society. She is currently with the Office of Governance Studies at the U.S. Bahá’í
National Center.
Tahirih Tahririha-Danesh spent the first years of her life in one of the newly
established Bahá’í communities near Tihran, the Capital of Iran.  Faced by the same
wave of persecutions that affected many Bahá’ís in the 1980s, she witnessed the loss
of many of her loved ones. She has worked in the fields of human rights research
and social and economic development in Asia, Europe, and America and has re-
cently completed a combined Masters degree in Conflict Resolution and Education
at Landegg International University. Her professional life is dedicated to the preser-
vation and presentation of the history of the persecution of the Bahá’ís through
various media, and to help establish new approaches in Bahá’í-inspired and inter-
faith human rights education.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
BY KISER BARNES
It is a special privilege to discuss human rights and multiculturalism at the
first international conference on human rights in Brazil, at a time when the
wide variety of considerations about principles that shape the law, morality
and politics of human rights are being explored. As a member of the Bahá’í
Faith, a worldwide multicultural community which believes that the direction
of human rights must also be enriched by spiritual principles, my enthusiasm is
heightened on this occasion. For I share your confidence that a global human
rights culture is evolving, where, as suggested by Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of
the Faith, “an equal standard of human rights must be recognized and adopted.”1
The theme of “multiculturalism” includes the question whether international
human rights,for example those contained in the Universal Declaration of Hu-
man Rights and the International Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural
Rights,are applicable to all societies; or can those rights be differently inter-
preted and applied by States on the grounds of political, economical, cultural,
or other differences. Notwithstanding that the recognition of human rights rep-
resents an attempt to legitimise a set of worldwide, overarching values, the
universal characteristics of human rights is a large part of the difficulties of
justifying them in a multicultural world. Although many right measures have
become a part of international customary law and national positive law, human
rights claims in general appeal to moral principles. Thus, the concept of human
rights remains close to the idea of justice.
The issue has created a great deal of tension between the basic moral force
of human rights, their increasingly legal nature, and the fundamental principles
of justice which human rights imply. The discussions have led to a good deal of
agreement that human rights rest on universal principles of morality, or justice,
which are open to a process of change. Fortunately, the debate has, as well,
This paper first presented at the “First International Conference On Human Rights,”
14-17 September 1997, Brazilia, Brazil, sponsored by the Brazilian Bar Association

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
further entrenched the doctrine of human rights as a prime philosophical source
of political and social reform. Moreover, the difficulty has highlighted the rich
diversity of the human family, which is both its glory and its strength and con-
clusive evidence of the success with which man has adapted to the diverse
conditions of his planet.
Such observations suggest that in a first conference called to discover prac-
tical measures for strengthening the human rights movement, in the face of the
monstrosity of “ethnic cleansing”; the horrors of racism; the perverted passions
of religious animosity; the extermination and marginalization of indigenous
peoples; the victimization of women; and other symptoms of the disease of
disunity afflicting mankind, a consideration of guiding principles, found in law,
and other fields, including religion, that could broaden insight about some ba-
sic values accepted by a great many cultures and promote the universality of
human rights principles, would be appropriate.
Here we approach the heart of the matter. Are there directive principles, in
addition to those already established in the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, other rights instruments, and elsewhere—such as the “dignity of the
human person,” which might influence perceptions and attitudes about the con-
ceptual framework and scope of human rights? It appears that reference to the
principles of the oneness of mankind and unity in diversity—fundamental prin-
ciples of the Faith—could invigorate the process.
Thus, an essential reference for my remarks on the challenges connected
with human rights in a multicultural world, is that:
The bedrock of a strategy that can engage the world’s population in assuming responsibility
for its collective destiny must be the consciousness of the oneness of humankind. The
human species is an organic whole, the leading edge of the evolutionary process …What
the peoples of the world are experiencing, Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith, said
is their collective coming of age, and it is through this emerging maturity of the race that the
principle of unity in diversity will find full expression.2
In this discussion, some issues involved in the challenge of promoting the
universality of international human rights are addressed. A review of some
basic values in international instruments which are accepted in a broad sense
by all peoples is presented, along with a tentative exploration of the relation
of the Bahá’í principle of the oneness of mankind to human rights. Some practi-
cal implications connected with the learning principles in relation to the rights
of indigenous peoples and minority groups are outlined. Comments on the
merits of an multi-disciplinary approach for fostering human rights, including

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
the role of religion and the importance of human rights education, are also
presented.
The Challenge of Universality
In 1945, the United Nations took a revolutionary step by including human
rights in Article l of its Charter as one of its basic aims. For the first time human
rights were elevated to a position of global concern, described by Winston
Churchill as “the enthronement of human rights.”3 The concept of human rights,
traditionally known as natural rights or the rights of man, that had been purport-
edly internationalised, was that a person had human rights simply because he or
she is a human being. The view of cultural relativism, under the doctrine of
“multiculturalism,” was inserted into the human rights discourse in 1948, when
the American Anthropological Association rejected the applicability of any Dec-
laration of Human Rights to mankind as a whole. Its statement explicitly stressed
that “the rights of Man … cannot be circumscribed by the standards of any single
culture, or be dictated by the aspirations of any single people.”4
From the perspective of relativism, cross-cultural judgments are opposed
on the grounds that there are no overarching, universal moral truths, or prin-
ciples, or universal cultural ideals. It has been argued that many human rights
norms possess a distinctively Western or Judeo-Christian bias, reflecting as-
sumptions that the values of other cultures, peoples and races are inferior.
Hence, it is asserted they are ethnocentric. For instance, the notion of universal
human rights has been opposed in Asia and Africa on the grounds that Western
notions of human rights are founded on the idea of the personal autonomy of
individuals, which those cultures do not hold as a fundamental virtue, in contrast
to communitarian values. Relativists further contend that other cultures have
virtues of their own, to which their members are held accountable.
Another argument in favour of cross-cultural relativism, is the view that
developing states cannot be expected to implement political and civil rights
fully,as long as they have not reached a level of economic development; these
states must give priority to economic development, in order to facilitate the
realization of civil and political rights. The international instruments them-
selves attach equal weight to both sets of rights. Furthermore, the United Na-
tions General Assembly and the United Nations Commission on Human Rights
have confirmed that human rights are indivisible, interdependent, and deserve
the same amount of attention.
The theory that human rights are relative has gradually lost ground. Cultural
relativists have found it increasingly difficult to sustain their position.5 Some

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
have conceded that there are some global values to which all peoples and
cultures may be held accountable. For example, no culture tolerates indiscrimi-
nate lying, stealing or violence within the group. The universality of incest
taboo. A limitation on the number of deaths that might be inflicted in legitimate
acts of revenge. The universal acceptance of the Golden Rule, a universal prin-
ciple for human relations, as a fundamental ethical truth.
Under what has been termed a “Minimal Globalism,” it is thought that the
concept of human rights is universal but that rights vary among different societ-
ies.6 The acceptance of particular moral principles and legal entitlements often
evolve to stages of acceptance and implementation over time. Historical de-
velopments certainly support the view. For example, religious, racial, sexual
and ethnic discrimination have been widely practiced but are indefensible
today. It is generally agreed that “core rights,” such as the right to life, security
of person, prohibition of discrimination, and freedom of thought, conscience
and religion are not subject to cultural definitions and applications.
The view remains compelling that since 1946 when the signatories of the
United Nations Charter affirmed their faith in fundamental human rights, basi-
cally on the principle of the dignity and worth of the human person, no state can
claim that the denial of such rights to its own citizens is solely its own business.
To this end, in 1993, at the World Congress on Human Rights, the representa-
tives adopted by concensus the Vienna Declaration, which states of “all human
rights and fundamental freedoms for all” articulated in the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights and elsewhere: “The universal nature of these rights and
freedoms is beyond question… Human rights and fundamental freedoms are
the birthright of all human beings; their protection and promotion is the first
responsibility of Government.”
Obviously the guiding principle of the universality of human rights has been
subject to the exigencies of special political interests; for the human rights
movement is not inseparable from the political process. Yet, it is plain that a
broader acceptance of the universality of rights, limiting what a state may do to
its citizens, seems to be precisely what the political problems of our age ur-
gently require. The world has undoubtedly gained a great deal from the fact
that since the acceptance of the Universal Declaration efforts for the imple-
mentation of basic human rights have become increasingly a feature of interna-
tional relations, conventions and diplomacy. The massive violations prove,
however, a cynical disregard of its principles on the part of some governments.
There are still innumerable persons oppressed who have not yet felt the ben-
efits of the principle of universality.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
For my part, I am delighted to say that as early as 1947, the Bahá’í Faith, in a
written presentation to the United Nations Commission on Human Rights, of-
fered its support for an international system of human rights.7 The perspective
of the Faith regarding the principles of the oneness of humankind and unity in
diversity was presented. Subsequently, the Bahá’í International Community has
consistently shared the merits of this fundamental ideal. The following is a
representative statement:
The goal of the international community is to build a world family of nations, whose
members have equal rights, privileges, duties and responsibilities, and share a dedication
to peace and to the upholding of a common set of human values; to create a global society
which protects the human rights of every member, respect his dignity and individuality,
and provides for the full development of his potential, so that he may be of service to his
fellow human beings and make his contribution toward the building of an ever-advancing
civilization.8
More recently, the Statement of the Bahá’í International Community, Turning
Point For All Nations, presented on the Occasion of the Fiftieth Anniversary of
the United Nations, offers new ways of thinking about human rights, within the
broad context of the evolution of an integrated global society. “The way has
been cleared for new definitions of human rights and affirmation of personal
dignity,” it states, and that “ new levels of consciousness have been reached on
global programs to promote… human rights…” 9
Accordingly, it is highly encouraging, that from the universality relativity
discussions powerful insight has emerged about our rich diversity of cultures,
and some specific features of African, Asian, and indigenous cultures, to men-
tion only a few. A deeper appreciation has thus been established for the global
moral imperatives in the holy scriptures of the world religions, which are the
root-genesis of the spiritual values found in human rights instruments. A broader
awareness has developed, given the evolutionary nature of human rights, that
different cultural traditions may contribute positively by raising new areas of
concern, adding more rights, and generally informing the movement with addi-
tional values.
The Oneness of Mankind as a Normative Concept
I turn now to a consideration of the possible advantages the principles of
the oneness of mankind may hold for the ideal of human rights. The legal in-
struments and the literature on human rights demonstrate the critical role that

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
principles have played, and are playing, in the search for a world view that
would support a viable foundation for human rights. References to such moral
principles, or basic values, as human dignity and non-discrimination are in a
great number of legal instruments. The description of the moral values are
expressed variously as human rights “principles,” “universal principles,” “ide-
als,” “values,” “concepts,””goals,” “fundamentals,””norms,” “axioms,” “standards,”and
“utilities.” Of course, the merit of these normative concepts is that they do not
offer a detailed statement of vision,or scope, or practical measures for imple-
mentation. They provide a dynamic, a perspective,and a will for achieving the
undertaking. They influence perceptions and attitudes, which invigorates the
process of the evolution and implementation of human rights.
Suffice it to recall, as well, that many international human rights instruments
declare that their contents are based on “ the principles proclaimed in the
Charter of the United Nations.”10 Many affirm, “the principles of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights”11, which was put forward principally as a state-
ment of ideals, elaborating “classical principles.” Other Covenants are based
on “respect for the principle of equal rights… universal respect for, and obser-
vance of, human rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as
to race, sex, language or religion” 12; “the principle of the dignity and equality
of all human beings”13; “the principle of non-discrimination”14; “the principle of
equal remuneration for men and women workers for work of equal value”15;
the “Declaration of Basic Principles on the Independence of the Judiciary”16;
and the “Declaration on Social and Legal Principles relating to the Protection
and Welfare of Children…”17
The universal principle of the “dignity of the human person” occupies a
prominent position. It appears in the Preamble of the United Nations Charter
as an ideal that “we the peoples of the United Nations” are “determined” to
achieve. It is included in the first Article of the Universal Declaration of Hu-
man Rights, as well as, in the other documents constituting the International Bill
of Human Rights, in various resolutions and declarations of international bod-
ies, and in national constitutions. It has acquired such approbation that it is in-
voked widely as a legal and moral ground for championing human rights. Indeed,
it has been described as the “supreme ethical principle,” the “emancipatory
principle underlying human rights.”
All I have expressed, thus far, demonstrates that principles have far-reach-
ing implications. Before proceeding further in this direction, however, I am
sensible that lawyers often prefer discussions that give specificity to the con-
cept of legal rights and duties, and the implementation and realization of rec-
ognized rights. More often than not, the discussions are technical rather than
ethical in character. The view is still heard that positive law, in contrast to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
moral values or moral law, is the only law which it is worth thinking about.
However, it is thought that lawyers and legal postivism might serve to make the
public more conscious of what morality is. In this regard, I remind you that Law
Faculties around the world were the first to study the doctrine of human rights
in an objective manner.
Inquiries concerning principles of human rights are intimately connected
with the jurisprudential search for the ultimate values of legal ordering. It is
generally accepted that the source of justice is in the law, and that one cannot
talk for long about law without entering into the realm of value. It is intimately
linked with justice, and in its entirety is seen as a system of justice. The human
rights field, in particular, offers golden opportunities for connecting the rise
of a value-oriented jurisprudence, not only on the premise of a revival of
natural law philosophy, if you wish, but by reference to certain spiritual and
evolutionary forces which are pushing law forward towards a field, which might
be termed, “Law and the Oneness of Humankind.” It is in this direction that law
and lawyers, as servants of justice, would develop more capacity to serve a
unified world.
I am also aware that the term ‘principle’ in the Declarations and Conven-
tions, and elsewhere, seems to have lost much of its sense of an ontological
source for practical, effective programs of action. In many instances the call for
a radical approach based on principle, or a decision, or a course of action based
on principle, is taken to suggest the notion of a static proposition or the pursuit
of expediencies of national, ethnic, or local interests. Moreover, following the
recent unleashing of deep-seated hatred, which has given way to the recur-
rence of that monstrous spirit of “ethnic cleansing” in the former Yugoslavia and
Rwanda, it might be thought that a return to what may seem so slight a thing as
principles to animate the human rights movement misconceives the depth of
the suspicions and fears and cynicalism , neopragmatism, and disunity afflicting
mankind. However, the place and role of principles is undoubtedly part of the
process of the evolving consciousness for new ways of thinking and express-
ing committment that must be had in the human rights movement.
Thus, it is extremely heartening that in the face of chronic disillusionment
over religious extremism, racism, poverty, hunger, and violent atrocities, Mary
Robinson, President of Ireland, who will soon take up the appointment as the
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, in the position of Gen-
eral Reporter at the Council of Europe’s Preparatory Meeting for the 1993
World Conference on Human Rights, raised an urgent call for a return to prin-
ciples in this striking manner: “…I share with you a firm and tested belief in
the power of ideas…”19 In the same manner, Ervin Laszlo, one of the foremost
exponents of systems philosophy, a member of the prestigious Club of Rome

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
and Rector of the Vienna Academy for the Study of the Future, declared: “We
have all forgotten the importance and power of postive ideas and images of the
future. We look upon the few remaining visionaries of a better world as naive
optimists or harmless fools. Our societies suffer from an overdose of pragma-
tism combined with generalized but vague pessimism.”20
Approaches based on principles are in sharp contrast to the views heard in
influential quarters that belief in the power of ideas, or principles, or a re-
statement of human values in relation to human rights, is utopian and a danger-
ous impediment to effective political action for human rights formulation and
implementation.21 And how far has the human rights movement advanced from
those dark days when Jeremy Bentham objected to any declarations of the rights
of man as empty “rhetorical utterances”22 and Edmund Burke asserted that the
sponsors of the French Declaration of the Rights of Man had done great social
harm by proclaiming, what he called, the “monstrous fiction” of human equal-
ity.23 The great international jurist, Judge Lauterpacht, once wrote of human rights:
“Inasmuch as… they are an expression of moral claims, they are a powerful
lever of legal reform. The moral claims of today are often the legal rights of
tomorrow.”24 And if the position of Justice Chukwudifu Oputa is true that men
of action are mobilized to action by the power of principles,25 then thinking
about the nexus of universal standards to human rights is a serious undertaking.
Particularly, when it is generally agreed that the inherent dignity of the human
person is a primary normative standard of human rights. Although what is meant
by “inherent worth,” or “inherent dignity” or “sacred nature” of the human per-
son has not been universally agreed upon.
I am not suggesting here that the noble value—the inherent dignity of the
human person—requires a universally agreed upon definition in general terms.
However, analysis and detailed clarifications about its meaning might reduce
specious use of the concept and broaden the impressive number of specific
implications for relevant conduct that could be drawn from the principle. I
agree with Alan Cranston that:
There is a connection between human rights being universal and their formulation being
generalised and wide. The basic general principle of morality are minimal precisely be-
cause they are universal. Human rights rests on universal principles, but the precise moral
rights of men in some communities differ from the precise moral rights of men in other
communities, and this is one reason why the formulation of human rights cannot be at the
same time closely detailed and of universal application.26

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
A considerable number of the features, implications, and practical require-
ments associated with the principles concerning the unification of mankind are
outlined in the Bahá’í Writings. In support of the view that the principle of
unity in diversity would complement those notable principles which have thus
far animated the human rights movement, I would point out that in the scriptures
of the Bahá’í Faith, the dignity of the human person has also been extolled:
Man,[is] the noblest and most perfect of all created things,”27; “Lofty is the station of
man!… His is the loftiest station, and his influence educateth the world of being.”28;”Regard
man as a mine rich in gems of inestimable value.”29 “It ill beseemeth the station of man to
commit tyranny; rather it behoveth him to observe equity and be attired with the raiment
of justice under all conditions.”30 “Were man to appreciate the greatness of his station and
the loftiness of his destiny he would manifest naught save goodly character, pure deeds
and a seemly and praiseworthy conduct.” 31
As you know, the term ‘principle’ is derived from the Latin word ‘principium’.
It is compounded of the words primus, meaning first or chief, and cipium, mean-
ing ‘to take’. Thus, a ‘principle’ is that controlling factor in human undertakings
which must be considered first. It is first or chief among other factors, the
primary source, or underlying faculty of an endeavour, upon which practical
decisions and actions may follow. One of the functions is that principles indi-
cate new approaches which ought to be taken.
Consistently, then, with a belief in the power of directive principles, the
Bahá’í Faith, since its birth in 1844, has called upon the peoples of the world to
explore the principle of the oneness of mankind. In a major statement on the
function of principles in facilitating major world undertakings, the Universal
House of Justice, the highest International Administrative Body of the Bahá’í
Faith at Haifa, Israel, wrote:
There are spiritual principles, or what some call human values, by which solutions can be
found for every social problem. Any well-intentioned group can in a general sense devise
practical solutions to its problems, but good intentions and practical knowledge are usually
not enough. The essential merit of spiritual principle is that it not only presents a perspec-
tive which harmonizes with that which is immanent in human nature, it also induces an
attitude, a dynamic, a will, an aspiration, which facilitate the discovery and implementa-
tion of practical measures. Leaders of governments and all in authority would be well
served in their efforts to solve problems if they would first seek to identify the principles
involved and then be guided by them.32

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
Here, then is an empowering principle—the oneness of mankind—repre-
senting, from the perspective of the Bahá’í Faith “the consummation of human
evolution,” which, may be promoted in concert with the basic value, the inher-
ent dignity of the human person, and other noble principles, that have quick-
ened the human rights movement. As a further step in this direction, I shall next
suggest some practical implications of the principle that are not only compat-
ible with the ideas of the inherent dignity and worth of human persons, but
would serve to enrich these concepts, and others, which are basically linked
with the idea of justice and equity, which the human rights movement implies.
The following, most of which has been compiled from the Bahá’í Scriptures or
statements presented by the United Nations Office of the Bahá’í International
Community, also includes a few specific practical points concerning indigenous
people, minorities and human rights education.
-
First of all, the Bahá’í Writings emphasise that this noble principle is “
no… mere outburst of… emotionalism or an expression of vague and
pious hope… [nor] to be merely identified with a reawakening of the
spirit of brotherhood and good-will among men… It implies an organic
change in the structure of present-day society… It constitutes a challenge,
at once bold and universal, to outworm shibboleths of national creeds…
It calls for no less than the reconstruction… of the civilized world—a
world organically unified in all the essential aspects of its life, its po-
litical machinery, its spiritual aspiration, its trade and finance, its script
and language, and yet infinite in the diversity of the national characteris-
tics of its federated units.”33
-
The conception is “primarily directed against all forms of provincialism,
all insularities and prejudices… social assumptions and religious for-
mulae [that] have ceased to promote the welfare of the generality of
mankind… [and] no longer minister to the needs of a continually evolv-
ing humanity.”34
- “…recognition of the oneness of humanity, appreciation of unity in di-
versity, and a sense of citizenship in a world community will be the best
guarantee of improved human rights in the years to come…”35
-
“…responsibility for ensuring equal rights for minorities falls on both
majorities and minorities. Majorities have a special responsibility, for
the sake of justice, to bring about the social and political adjustments
which will enable minorities to exercise… their common and funda-
mental rights… Both must view minority issues in the context of an in-
creasingly interdependent world… Attitudes must change. There must
be a shift in the view of majorities towards oppressed minorities, and

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
minorities must be freed from the sense of helplessness induced by
prolonged discrimination… The challenge of changing attitudes… is not
entirely within the ability of government to meet, as it calls for the influ-
ence of spiritual and moral principle… the principle which must govern
any consideration of minority rights is the oneness of humanity… the
diversity of the human family must be recognized as a source of enrich-
ment rather than as a threat.”36
-
“Unity in diversity is at once a vision for the future and a principle to
guide the world community. Not only must this principle come to ani-
mate relations among the nations… but it must also be applied within
both local and national communities, if they are to prosper and endure.
The unifying, salutary effects of applying this principle… would be in-
calculable.”37
-
“…education is indispensable to the realization of human rights. Educa-
tion which instills in hearts and minds an awareness of and sensitivity to
human rights of all persons constitutes… an essential tool for the promo-
tion and implementation of international human rights standards… [It]
should constitute a comprehensive life-long process by which people at
all levels of development and in all strata of society learn respect for
the dignity of others and the means and methods of ensuring that respect
in all societies… Human rights eduation, if it is to succeed, must seek to
transform individual attitudes and behavior and thereby establish… a
new “culture” of respect for human rights. Only such a change in the fun-
damental social outlook of every individual… can bring about the uni-
versal observance of human rights principles… Accordingly, it is essential
to touch the heart… Such education, moreover, must help to instill in
every individual a keen, emotionally grounded awareness of the funda-
mental unity of humankind. As people begin to see each other as mem-
bers of one human family, they will become willing to discard negative
learned stereotypes and begin to see people of other ethnic groups,
nationalities, classes and religious beliefs as potential friends rather
than as threats or enemies… Bahá’í communities… are already both pro-
moting and providing education, based on the the principle of the one-
ness of humanity, which seeks to cultivate respect for the rights of others,
a sense of responsibility for the well-being of the human family, and the
moral attributes that contribute to a just, harmonious and peaceful world
civilization.”38
-
“Moral qualities, sometimes referred to as spiritual qualities or human
values, are the building blocks of human personality… The full power
of these fundamental qualities can be released… only when they are

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
acquired in the context of an understanding of the oneness of humanity
and with attention to their application in action for the betterment of
society as a whole. Indeed, unless applied universally and in action, these
qualities can easily become little more than slogans, at times degenerat-
ing even to become excuses for prejudice and injustice… Moral educa-
tion centered on an understanding of the essential oneness of humankind
and applied on a universal basis constitutes an indispensable foundation
for the universal respect for human rights.”39
-
The gradual recognition of indigenous peoples and minority groups is a
pronounced example of how the dynamic concept of the principle of
human rights is moving with the forces of history and oneness. Efforts for
recognizing and protecting indigenous rights must be seen in a global
context. No people should be set apart from the whole of mankind. The
theme of oneness of mankind certainly includes the growing sense of
the moral responsibility of humanity as a whole for indigenous peoples.
The perpetuation of the cultural characteristics of peoples should be
viewed as an expression of unity in diversity, which enriches the tapes-
try of human life. Often difficulties arise not because groups do not de-
sire the development of their members and their natural resources, but
because they are not consulted and do not reap the benefits of develop-
ment projects. Human rights programs,and other programs,should instill
in all people a sense of their worth as actual and potential co-builders of
a world civilization, as channelled through cultural perspectives, which
could enrich the entire fabric of civilized society.
-
If affirmative action programs are advisable, the concept would give a
larger vision of unity and oneness and that the initiative involves more
than remedying past injustice. It would assist in approaching the more
important question of how social unity among diverse groups can be best
advanced. Such programs might assist in establishing a perspective, as
practiced in the Bahá’í Faith, if there is any discrimination it should be in
favor of the minority.
It may be seen in these statements that the principles of the oneness of
mankind and unity in diversity could foster the adherence to values, such as
unity, justice and consciousness of world citizenship. They would provide a
framework upon which a new vision, new commitment and a new pardigm of
unity can be constructed.
Of course, from the declaration of principles to their implementation, there
is certainly a long and difficult road. Yet,the formal international recognition of
global human rights has not only strengthened the struggle for international

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
justice, but increased awareness that change is a gradual process, requiring posi-
tive interactions of consultations and a broadening of vision. Still, it is readily
acknowledged that the principles in international and regional human rights
documents have influenced the content and practice of governments. The world
has learned that the adoption of general standards formulated in terms of le-
gally and morally binding treaties do not automatically transform into state prac-
tice. The era of universally accepted human rights points the way forward for
concensus on binding values and irrevocable standards. The advantages of the
principle of the oneness of mankind and unity in diversity might be explored,
not as a detailed declaration of action, but as a help and support for those look-
ing for direction, orientation and meaning of the larger purpose of human rights.
Finally, the universality of human rights needs to be viewed in context of an
emergent unity paradigm, supported by the complementarity of religious, le-
gal and other social perspectives. From a human rights perspective, conscious
unification on a planetary scale is the process appropriate to humanity’s matu-
rity and growing capacity. And from this perspective, it is also clear that the
international code of human rights has a clear bias in favour of the kind of
society that displays a specific coherent set of spiritual values; tolerance of
diversity; plurality of belief, ideas and cultures, reasonableness and rational-
ity; the peaceful resolution of conflict under the rule of law; and, above all,
respect for the dignity and integrity of every single one of its individual mem-
bers.
Directly related to the topic of universality of rights is the emotional and
difficult concern that support for the human rights for all, within a rigid “us” and
“them” dichotomy, would compromise or destroy that loyalty all of us cherish
for family, peoples and nation. In support of a radical new and far more dy-
namic approach to culture in the area of human rights, the Bahá’í Writings state:
Far from aiming at the subversion of the existing foundations of society, it [the oneness of
mankind] seeks to broaden its basis, to remould its institutions in a manner consonant with
the needs of an ever-changing world. It can conflict with no legitimate allegiances, nor can
it undermine essential loyalties… It does not ignore, nor does it attempt to suppress, the
diversity of ethnical origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradition, of thought and
habit, that differentiate the peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a wider loyalty, for
larger aspiration than any that has animated the human race. It insists upon the subordina-
tion of national impulse and interests to the imperative claims of a unified world… Its
watchword is unity in diversity.40

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
A Multi-disciplinary Approach
The broad and inherent multi-disciplinary nature of human rights concerns
and the requirement for the interaction of numerous programs of action are
sometimes difficult for lawyers and legislators to accept. The language which
human rights are formulated is primarily the language of law, but the combined
forces of political, legal, religious and moral influences must be employed.
Laws are insufficient alone to create a just global society. Promotion of a multi-
disciplinary approach would greatly assist in raising the discussions to the level
of principles.
It is becoming clearer that the root source of the problems of abuses of
power, prejudices, and disunity have their origin in the malfunctioning of the
human spirit. Thus, the legal rationality of human rights, though essential, is not
a sufficient basis for the resolution of deep-seated prejudices and disunity.
The challenge of changing attitudes is not entirely within the ability of the legal
system and governments to meet. This does not suggest that the law has no
deterrent or educative effects. It is only to suggest that changing the bad laws or
introducing laws prohibiting certain activities is only a partial solution of the
problem.
This may involve ensuring that a greater number from minority groups be-
come members of the legal profession. It may also involve increasing under-
standing that governments have a peculiar interest in ensuring that human rights
measures are enforced. The use of public agencies to promote and enforce
human rights legislation should be encouraged. Victims of discrimination usu-
ally do not seek legal redress individually, either because they are not aware
of the steps to take, or because such redress is disproportionately
expensive.Thus, reliance on law enforcement by public agencies and private
organisations is therefore likely to be very great. The operation of public
human rights agencies should be seen as the enforcement of constitutional or
particular provisions in the public interest on behalf of the community as a
whole.
It is now well understood that a considerable amount of bias is either so
covert, entrenched, institutionalised and systemic that the anti-cultural, or rac-
ist, or sexist practices, policies or rules appear neutral on their face, i.e., non-
discriminatory and reasonable. In such circumstances experience and expertise
are essential to detect the discriminatory operation, impact and effect of the
prejudice and ferret it out. Well-trained human rights workers with a public
agency can accumulate sufficient experience to uncover the discriminatory prac-
tice. The staff soon acquires the necessary expertise to recognize the subtle
and insidious forms that discrimination and disunity take and the agency itself

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
becomes a clearing house for authoritative information on the problems of
protected groups. The enforcement of the law by a state agency also educates
the community both as to the law itself and on the importance accorded the state
to the elimination of prejudice.
Conclusion
It is to the credit of the organizers of this conferences that the participation
from religious organizations has been so prominent. It is undoubtedly a major
part of a multi-disciplinary approach that human rights promotion must be a
meeting point for different religions. Historically, the religions of the world
have been a fertile source of moral and ethical principles and practices. It
appears that more and more critical thinkers are realizing that the contents and
direction of human rights,in a contracting world community,must be enriched
by spiritual principles and priorities.
The Scriptures of the Bahá’í Faith not only envisage a society in which the
basic human rights and needs of each of its members can be met, but affirm that
religion is the chief instrument, “for the establishment of order in the world
and of the tranquility amongst all its people.” The holy scriptures have offered
a progressive vision of a fundamental global transformation that embodies a
new set of principles for understanding and guiding humanity’s relationships.
Accordingly, there can be no question of the importance of religion as a source
of moral values and principles and perspectives for the universalization of
human rights values.
I have focussed on human rights principles because it seems important in a
first conference on human rights to illustrate that principles are the means by
which the law lives, grows, and demonstrates that it is not a mere collection of
rules. Through the medium of principles, law, and in particular human rights
concerns, we can draw nourishment from religion and from other fields. As I
indicated earlier, only after World War II, a brief span of time in mankind’s
evolution, has there been a sustained effort to formulate the substance of what
is now called human rights into principles of a global scope. Thus, given the
dynamic and evolutionary nature of human rights, this subject lends itself di-
rectly to the view that the human rights movement needs to be viewed from a
perspective that conscious unification on a planetary scale is the process appro-
priate to humanity’s maturity and growing capacity for integration.
As a fundamental tenet of their religion, Bahá’ís are committed to the eradi-
cation of all forms of prejudice, including those based on race, ethnic origin,
religion, sex or nationality. Believers are striving to build in Brazil, and com-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
munities around the globe, those new conditions of unity conducive to the uni-
versal enjoyment of rights and responsibilities, which the golden future of
human rights in a multicultural world holds.
Footnotes
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1982). The Promulgation of Universal Peace . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
p. 182.
Bahá’í International Community (1997). The Bahá’í World 1995-96. Haifa, Israel: World Centre
Publications. pp. 289, 290; From a statement presented by the Bahá’í International Community,
at the 47th Session of the Sub-Commission on Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of
Minorities, Geneva, 31 July to 25 August 1995.
Cranston, Maurice (1973). What are Human Rights. New York: Taplinger Publishing Co. Inc. p. 3.
Ann-Belinda S. Preis (1996). Human Rights as Cultural Practice: An Anthropological Critique.
Human Rights Quarterly, vol. 18. p. 287.
Etzioni, Amitai (1997). The End of Cross-Cultural Relativism. Alternatives, vol. 22. p. 177.
ibid. p.180.
Entitled, “A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights.”
From a statement presented by the Bahá’í International Community submitted to the Workgroup
on Social and Cultural Dimensions of Development at the 33rd Session of the Sub-Commission
on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, Geneva, 26 August 1980.
Bahá’í International Community (1995). Turning Point For All Nations. New York: Bahá’í Interna-
tional Community United Nations Office. pp. 1, 3. A significant portion of the document deals
with the subject. See the sections: Protecting Fundamental Human Rights, p. 16; Strengthening the
Machinery of the UN for Monitoring, Implementation and Follow-Up, p. 17; Encouraging Universal
Ratification of International Conventions On Human Rights, p. 17; Assuring Respect for the Monitoring
Organs Of The UN Involved In Human Rights, p. 18; Advancing the Status of Women, p. 18.
10 See for instance, Preamble, International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
11 The Proclamation of Teheran, proclaimed by the International Conference on Human Rights at
Teheran on 13 May 1968.
12  Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples, General
Assembly resolution 1514 (XV) of 14 December 1960.
13 Preamble, Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.
14 Preamble, Convention against Discrimination in Education.
15 Preamble, Equal Remuneration Convention.
16 Adopted in 1985 and endorsed by General Assembly resolution 40/32, December 1985.
17 Declaration on Social and Legal Principles relating to the Protection and Welfare of Children,
with Special Reference to Foster Placement and Adoption Nationally and Internationally, adopted
by General Assembly resolution 41/85, 3 December 1986.
18 Bielefeldt, Heiner (Spring 1994). Human Rights in a Multicultural World. Paper delivered to the
Law Faculty, University of Toronto.
19 Robinson, Mary (1993). Human Rights as the Dawn of the 21st Century. 15 Human Rights Quarterly
629. p. 630.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and Multiculturalism
20 Laszlo, Ervin (1989). The Inner Limits of Mankind. London: One World Publications Ltd. p. 59.
Donelly, John (1989). Universal Human Rights in Theory & Practice . Ithica, NY: Cornell Univer-
sity Press. p. 6.
Cranston, p. 14.
ibid. p. 15.
24 ibid. p. 82.
Oputa, Chukwudifu Akunne (1989). Human Rights in the Political and Legal Culture of Nigeria.
Lagos, Nigeria: Nigerian Law Publications Ltd. p. 38.
26 Cranston, op. cit. p. 81.
27 Bahá’u’lláh (1976). Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. p. 179.
28 Bahá’u’lláh (1979). Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre. p. 220.
29 Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings. p. 260.
30 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 170.
31 ibid. p. 172.
32 Universal House of Justice (1985). The Promise of World Peace . Haifa, Israel: World Centre
Publications. p. 13.
33 Shoghi Effendi (1980). World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 43.
34 ibid. 42.
35 Bahá’í International Community (March 1997). Statement to the 53rd Session of the UN Commission
on Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. p. 3.
36 Bahá’í International Community (August 1994). Statement to the United Nations Sub-Commission on
Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities, Geneva, Switzerland.
37 Bahá’í International Community. Sustainable Communities in an Integrating World. p. 3. Based on
a concept paper shared at the Second United Nations Conference on Human Settlements
(Habitat II), Istanbul, Turkey, 3-4 June 1996.
38 Bahá’í International Community (March 1996). Statement on the United Nations Decade for Human
Rights Education, submitted to the UN Commission on Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland.
39 (23 April 1996). Joint Non-Governmental Organization Statement to the 52nd Session of the United
Nations Commission on Human Rights, offered by the Bahá’í International Community, on behalf
of thirty-four non-governmental organizations, Geneva, Switzerland. p. 4.
40 Shoghi Effendi, p. 41 .

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child:
Implications for Children’s Participation
in the Bahá’í Community
BY GREG DULY
Although subject to the criticism of promoting “…a certain culturally spe-
cific ‘Western’ model,…”1 international human rights, both in conceptual and
legislative terms, is gaining increasing importance as a normative framework
for the guidance and protection of humankind.2 Nevertheless, the validity of
the universality of human rights, particularly as set forth in the Universal Dec-
laration of Human Rights (UDHR) developed in 19483, is potentially under-
mined by questions about its provenance (i.e. having been established by a
small group of mostly Western nations) and perceptions of cultural insensitiv-
ity.4
In regard to children’s rights, however, these criticisms are significantly
diminished. Children’s rights are enshrined in the United Nations Convention
on the Rights of the Children (CRC) which was adopted unanimously by the UN
General Assembly in November 1989. In contrast to the UDHR, the consulta-
tive process that resulted in the CRC occurred over a ten-year period and
involved all members States of the United Nations. Importantly, between 1989
and 1999, the CRC was ratified by all but two countries—Somalia and the United
States of America. Thus, theoretically, at least, the CRC, as a conceptual frame-
work and legal instrument, should have legitimate claim to a universally ac-
cepted set of principles, norms and standards. Notwithstanding this achievement
questions remain. Less so regarding the issue of the universality of the CRC
and its broad intent than with its implementation at country level where the
norms and standards embodied in it encounter local cultural values and atti-
tudes about children that would appear to diverge from the intent of the Con-
vention.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
Whilst the international debate surrounding children’s rights may appear
remote and esoteric to national and local Bahá’í communities, recent messages
from the Universal House of Justice 5 regarding the role of children in commu-
nity life strikes a resonant chord with the current global focus on children’s
rights hence necessitating an examination of the ethics and principles under-
pinning these rights instruments and their relevance to the process of carrying
“…forward an ever-advancing civilization”6 as well as the ultimate goal of the
Bahá’í Faith—the unity of the human race. To this end, this paper will explore
several key human rights issues of relevance to the Bahá’í community.
First, the author will investigate the issue of the universality of rights in
light of criticism from cultural relativists. Second, the author will endeavour to
resolve concerns about the secular nature of rights instruments by exploring
the possibility that human and children’s rights may, in fact, have spiritual, or
religious influences. Finally, the paper will look more specifically at the rel-
evance of child rights and prospects of children’s participation in the Bahá’í
community. Whilst the author will offer suggestions regarding the implications
to the Bahá’í community of a rights orientation, it should be noted that this paper
is not intended to present a definitive statement on this subject. Rather, it is the
author’s hope that this paper will provoke thought and contribute to an on-going
examination of the significance of the messages from the Universal House of
Justice and international child rights instruments concerning the historical rela-
tionships between adults and children, institutions and children, as well as the
prescriptive and traditional attitudes about the roles and responsibilities chil-
dren can undertake in the Bahá’í community in the pursuit of world unity.
The Universality of Human Rights: A Universal Truth or Cultural
Imperialism?
Bahá’u’lláh taught that an equal standard of human rights must be recognized and adopted.
In the estimation of God all men are equal; there is no distinction or preferment for any
soul in the dominion of His justice and equity.7
Between 1853 and 1892, the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith, Bahá’u’lláh, issued a
series of Tablets and Letters that, when taken together, could be regarded as an
embryonic form of a human rights charter. One of the underlying conceptions
of Bahá’u’lláh’s implied rights framework is the principle of universality. Cor-
respondingly, the concept and indeed the feasibility of human rights 8 as a nor-
mative framework, particularly as expressed in the UDHR, rests upon this

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
same principle—a presumption of universality. That is to say, the principles,
standards and norms proclaimed in the Declaration are shared by all members
of the human family regardless of race, religion, gender, nationality, socio-
cultural status, and so forth. This issue of the universality of human rights is
extremely significant as “…there can be no prospect of the universal applica-
tion of [human] rights unless there is, at least, substantial agreement on their
concept, scope and content.”9 The principal of universality is supported by two
underlying concepts: a) an aspirational aspect, i.e. that all peoples of the world
share a desire for and a belief in these rights, and b) an entitlement component,
i.e. that all people are entitled to these rights and that this entitlement—a ter-
minology incorporating both moral and legal considerations—is a function of
one’s membership in the human race.
Unsurprisingly, the claim of universality of human rights is challenged by
“…some real skepticism.”10 Economist and Nobel Laureate, Amartya Sen, pos-
tulates that this scepticism can be grouped into three basic categories: the le-
gitimacy critique, the coherence critique, and the cultural critique.11 Whilst all
three critiques are relevant to the principle of universality, the analysis of this
paper will focus on the cultural critique in that cultural relativists are among the
strongest critics of the universality principle.
The claims of the cultural relativists regarding the purported lack of uni-
versality of human rights revolve around the following themes: a) limited par-
ticipation in the development of the UDHR, b) a disproportionate emphasis on
Western libertarian notions about individual autonomy without due regard for
the value of collective social responsibility, and c) the secular tone of the
Declaration and the human rights discourse that appears to devalue the role of
religion as a social force and as a source of individual inspiration and content-
ment.
Limited participation in the development of the UDHR refers to the fact
that at the time the Declaration was proclaimed (1948) only 58 countries partici-
pated in the dialogue and of these only 48 assented to its adoption.12 The critics
argue that since the Declaration had been drawn up without their participation
it cannot be considered truly universal.13 In response, human rights apologists
such as Dato’ Param Cumaraswamy, the Chairman of the Law Association for
Asia and the Pacific Standing Committee on Human Rights, point out that de-
spite the fact that the majority of the current member States of the United Na-
tions did not participate in the drafting and adoption of the Universal Declaration
in 1948, it should be “…realised that the… declaration came under close scru-
tiny as recently as 199314 [at the World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna]
and was reaffirmed by 171 member States.” … These States adopted by consen-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
sus the Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action, which [confirmed that]…
‘The universal nature of these rights and freedoms is beyond question.’”15
Whilst the Bahá’í Faith is a proponent of the principle of universality, it
does not argue its case in a manner that dichotomises the universality and rela-
tivist discourses. Although the universality of human rights is a foundational
principle, the Bahá’í Faith acknowledges the validity of certain relativist argu-
ments. Promoting universality without recognising bona fide culturally specific
values and norms would be akin to proposing a global form of cultural homo-
geneity or uniformity. Clearly, the Bahá’í position straddles the two worldviews
in a way that could be interpreted as ambiguous and non-committal. This inter-
pretation would be incorrect, however, as explicated by Shoghi Effendi16 in
the following citation:
Far from aiming at the subversion of the existing foundations of society, it17 seeks to
broaden its basis, to remold its institutions in a manner consonant with the needs of an
ever-changing world. It can conflict with no legitimate allegiances, nor can it undermine
essential loyalties. Its purpose is neither to stifle the flame of a sane and intelligent patrio-
tism in men’s hearts, nor to abolish the system of national autonomy so essential if the evils
of excessive centralization are to be avoided. It does not ignore, nor does it attempt to
suppress, the diversity of ethnical origins, of climate, of history, of language and tradition,
of thought and habit, that differentiate the peoples and nations of the world. It calls for a
wider loyalty, for a larger aspiration than any that has animated the human race. It insists
upon the subordination of national impulses and interests to the imperative claims of a
unified world. It repudiates excessive centralization on one hand, and disclaims all at-
tempts at uniformity on the other. Its watchword is unity in diversity…18
The reference to the primacy of individual autonomy pertains to notions
about individual rights and freedoms as contrasted against, according to the
relativists, the norms of other cultures that place high value on the concepts of
collective responsibility (to the family, to the community, and to the state),
loyalty, and discipline.19 Whilst this reasoning is compelling, both Cumaraswamy
and Sen present two persuasive counter arguments. The first is that the “West-
ern values” argument is most frequently made by the leaders of authoritarian
institutions (e.g. both governmental and traditionalist religious bodies) who
could be said to have a vested interest in diminishing the importance of indi-
vidual human rights. Indeed, Cumaraswamy contends that these authority fig-
ures do not accurately represent the aspirations of their people who support
the principle of the universality.20 Regarding the second argument, Sen posits
that in order for the relativists’ claims to hold true one should not be able find
historical evidence of individual rights and freedom as value system in these

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
cultures. This, however, is disproved by Sen who presents multiple examples
to the contrary. “In sum,” according to a report on the Ramsey Colloquium, “…an
integrated reading of the Declaration makes clear that it is neither individual-
istic nor statist, but a charter of rights for the flourishing of persons in commu-
nity.”21
A Bahá’í perspective on this particular issue is instructive. Bahá’í literature
suggests that the concepts of the rights of the individual and the rights of the
collective (family, community, nation) are not mutually exclusive. Indeed, it
would appear that they are mutually reinforcing as the following citations dem-
onstrate:
The integrity of the family bond must be constantly considered, and the rights of the
individual members must not be transgressed.22
Concern that each human being should enjoy the freedom of thought and action conducive
to his or her personal growth does not justify devotion to the cult of the individual that so
deeply corrupts many areas of contemporary life. Nor does concern to ensure the welfare
of society as a whole require a deification of the State as the supposed source of humanity’s
well-being.… Only in a consultative framework made possible by the consciousness of
the organic unity of humankind can all aspects of the concern for human rights find legiti-
mate and creative expression.… Since the body of humankind is one and indivisible, each
member of the race is born into the world as a trust of the whole.23
In reference to the secular nature of human rights deliberations, the concern
here is that whilst mention is made to the freedom of worship in the Universal
Declaration,24 the contemporary discourse is conducted in a form and a manner
that appears to diminish the role of religion as a social force and religious
tenets as normative frameworks. This subject will be discussed at greater length
in the following section.
In summary, the author endeavoured to examine the pivotal yet contentious
issue of the universality of human rights and concluded that the concept has been
subjected to sufficient debate as to permit the human race to accept that:
All human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent and interrelated. [And that]
The international community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner on
the same footing and with the same emphasis. While the significance of national and
regional particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be
borne in mind, it is the duty of States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural
systems, to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms.25

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
Equally, the author posited that the inherent tensions between the principle
of universality and cultural relativists need not be dichotomised by rights pro-
moters, world and religious leaders, and civil society. Rather, they should en-
courage a dialectic that will, through a consultative process, achieve coherence
and unity of thought on this issue.
Human rights - An expression of spiritual values?
One of the ironies of the human rights debate is that the concept is largely
perceived to have originated in a context of Western secular liberalism.26 This
perception is aided by the fact that the contemporary rights discourse is influ-
enced by classical modernism and a positivist interpretation of the philosophy
of natural law.27 On the contrary, religious contributions to the development of
human rights concepts are historically rather significant and quite direct. This
connection can be traced to the development of natural law which is widely
accepted to be the precursor to the concept of human rights. Whilst worldviews
about natural law have been heavily influenced by Hobbesian thought (e.g. the
notion that, motivated purely by self-interest, human beings agree to give up
their more unsociable freedoms in exchange for peace), there is evidence
establishing its numinous qualities. Thomas Aquinas, for example, asserted that
“natural law is a special subset of the divine law which pertains to moral behaviour,
and is accessible to everyone through reason - including unbelievers.28 Enlight-
enment philosophers, such as Grotius, Pufendorf, Locke, Clarke, and Paley ac-
knowledged that the will of God, as our Creator, becomes the highest natural
law and that “…our moral duties arise from this mandate and, in turn, these
moral duties lead to civil and international laws.”29
This belief system is not limited to Christian philosophers and theologians.
Islam and Judaism also subscribe to a belief in a “…universal moral law rooted
in the righteousness of God…” and the principle that “[s]ince human beings are
created in the image of God and loved by him [sic] as individuals each is worthy
of dignity and respect.” Furthermore, with reference to the UDHR itself,
Damien Keown, a scholar of Indian Religion, submits that “…each of the thirty
articles of the Universal Declaration shows them to be in harmony with early
Buddhist teachings both in letter and in spirit.”30
Bahá’í scripture contains numerous references to human rights. Not only do
Bahá’í writings attribute a spiritual or divine source for human rights, Bahá’u’lláh,
proffered many formulations on the subject of rights that, as already mentioned,
could be regarded as a notional basis for a Human Rights Charter, as well as an
international code of conduct, and a legal framework for human rights adminis-
tration. Examples of these writings include, inter alia, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas (The

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
Book of Laws), Bishár’at (Glad Tidings), Tarázát, (Ornaments), Tajallíyát
(Effulgences), and Kalimát-i-Firdawsíyyih (Words of Paradise).31 Due to the
vastness of the body of His work, a reproduction of these and other writings of
Bahá’u’lláh are beyond the scope of this paper.32 Briefly, however, the rights
principals articulated in His works are echoed in many of the concepts and
principles enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other
rights instruments. Examples include, inter alia: the inherent nobility of human
beings, the equality of humankind, the protection of the rights of any member
of the human race, the equality of women and men (and the importance of edu-
cating women), the protection of minority rights, the right to independently
investigate Truth, the harmony of science and religion, religious harmony and
tolerance, the elimination of poverty, and the establishment of international
structures and regulatory institutions endowed with the mandate to establish
and ensure human security and world peace. The essence of Bahá’u’lláh’s writ-
ings on these subjects has been provided in summary form by His eldest son,
‘Abdu’l-Bahá33 and is provided in Annex I, although interested readers are en-
couraged to seek the original texts.
Establishing the spiritual origins of human rights is a matter of some conse-
quence. If the human rights discourse is bound to a positivist, or modernist,
paradigm, humanity’s capacity to fully actualise the potential inherent in rights
concepts is likely to be circumscribed. If Hobbes’ self-interest postulate is to
be accepted as the norm, what motivation is there for humanity to internalise
and acts in ways that respects the UDHR’s pivotal principle of inherent human
dignity? Surely, a resigned compliance to international law will not create so-
cial norms wherein human rights flourish and human beings will live in a world
characterised by sustainable peace, security and co-operation in the truest sense
of these terms. An awareness of the divine source of human rights and indeed
life itself “…endows us with the capacity for self-transcendence.”34 In other
words, a willingness to freely commit one’s self to the types of personal and
social behaviour required to make the world truly peaceful and secure. Speak-
ing to the issue of the spiritual origins of human rights, Vaclav Havel contends
that :
“Politicians at international forums may reiterate a thousand times that the basis of the
new world order must be universal respect for human rights, but it will mean nothing as
long as this imperative does not derive from the respect of the miracle of Being… Only
someone who submits to the authority of the universal order and of creation… can genu-
inely value himself and his neighbours, and thus honor their rights as well.”35
This is a sentiment which reinforces ‘Abdu’l-Bahá ‘s assertion that :

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
All who hold fast to the one reality will be in agreement and unity. Then shall the religions
summon people to the oneness of the world of humanity and to universal justice; then will
they proclaim equality of rights and exhort men to virtue and to faith in the loving mercy of
God.36
In light of An-Na’im’s argument that “…there can be no prospect of the uni-
versal application of [human] rights unless there is, at least, substantial agree-
ment on their concept, scope and content”37 the recognition of the sacred origins
of human rights carries with it significant implications for overcoming the di-
chotomy between the so-called secular and relativist worldviews. What can, in
the final analysis, galvanise the requisite unity of thought and purpose in a world
riven by factionalism, fanaticism, materialism, militant nationalism, secularism,
racial and gender bigotry, ecclesiasticism, and scepticism? If the solution were
merely an acknowledgement of the divine nature of human rights, what then has
prevented the religions of the world from overcoming the barriers to human
security? It would appear, historically at least, that religions have approached
the rights dialogue from a particularist perspective, i.e. some religious lead-
ers have fuelled the relativist arguments either out of self-interest or due to
the lack of a vision of humanity that could transcend their respective orthodox-
ies. The Bahá’í writings, however, suggest that the recognition of the divine
origins of human rights can indeed create a powerful tool for achieving human
security and engaging “the world’s population in assuming responsibility for its
collective destiny” when conducted within a “consciousness of the oneness of
humankind.”38
The fact that this consciousness is emerging among the world’s religions can
be attested to by the development of a document known as the Declaration
towards a Global Ethic which is grounded in the conviction of the fundamental
unity of the human family and a belief that a common set of core values can be
found in the teachings of all the world major religions. Many of the principles
contained in the Declaration concern human rights. Additionally, the Declara-
tion considers the universal recognition of human rights and human dignity by
the religions of the world as the cornerstone of a “new global order.”39 An
excerpt from this Declaration is reproduced in Annex II.
Clearly, providing sufficient empirical evidence to demonstrate the sacred
nature of human rights is a challenge of immense proportions. Whilst eminent
persons such as Vaclav Havel assert that human rights are endowed by God,
secular human rights activists argue, on the other hand, that placing respect for
human rights and faith in God into the same concept violates one of the tenets of
human rights e.g. the right to deny the existence of God. This paper submits,
though, that the secular and religious perceptions are essentially compatible on

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
this point. Whilst activists express this right as the freedom to choose one’s
belief system (including atheism), the Founders of the world’s major religions
articulate this right as free will, or agency. In other words, the decision to
accept the existence of God must be voluntary and borne from informed aware-
ness and rational thought rather than blind faith. This concept receives compre-
hensive treatment in the Bahá’í writings.
In conclusion, the author argues that respect for human rights will be strength-
ened through a recognition of two basic concepts. First, that human rights are
God-given rights and, secondly, a consciousness of the organic oneness of the
human race. These concepts will enable humanity to transcend both the secular
paradigm that can alienate the “…billions of people who structure their daily
routines around spiritual practices…” and to free humanity from the traditional
religious practices that many suspect of particularism and power abuse.40 The
spiritual origins of human rights suggests important implications for under-
standing the potential roles and responsibilities for children in their personal
development as well as development of community life; a point that will be
explored in the following section of this paper.
Children’s Rights: A Consensus Enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of
the Child
One of the many implications of the principle of the universality of human
rights is that children are also rights holders with entitlements as well as capabilities
and responsibilities to act as agents of social change. Whilst this may seem
self-evident in this day and age, an historical examination reveals rather shock-
ing attitudes towards children over the years. In European societies of the
eighteenth Century, for example, children were deemed to be property of
their parents. Dr. Judith Ennew, a member of the Centre for Family Research at
Cambridge University, observes that :
[I]n England, child abduction was not theft in the legal sense unless the child happened to
be dressed. The thief was regarded as having stolen the clothes. Apart from that, child theft
was tantamount to stealing a corpse. In the case of both a dead body and a live child, no
legal person was involved.41
Three hundred years later the litany of violations against and deprivations
of children continues to make depressing reading: (a) some 600,000 million
children live in households that earn less than $1 per day; (b) more than 110
million children of primary-school age are not enrolled in school; (c) during

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
the 1990s more than 8 million children were either permanently disabled,
seriously injured or died as a result of armed conflict; (d) as of the year 2000,
over 300,000 children have been recruited to participate in armed conflicts;
and (e) an estimated 100 million children work in dangerous circumstance e.g.
bonded labour, prostitution & pornography.42 Clearly, these horrific conditions
place upon us, as citizens of the world, an obligation to ensure that children’s
rights are realised, a responsibility that includes providing children with a
voice and a means for affecting change on matters concerning their well being.
Likewise, a recognition of the divine heritage of human rights carries with
it significant meaning with respect to the role of children in the realisation of
humanity’s collective spiritual destiny which is, according to Bahá’í teachings,
the organic unity of humankind.43
Children’s rights are enshrined in the UN Convention on the Rights of the
Child (CRC) which was adopted by the UN General Assembly in 1989. The
CRC is the most widely ratified international Convention in history (191 coun-
tries). Only Somalia and the USA are not party to the treaty.44 The CRC is
underpinned by four fundamental principles (viz. (1) equal value and rights of
all children and the prohibition of discrimination (Article 2); (2) the best inter-
ests of the children (Article 3); (3) the right of the child to life, survival and
development (Articles 4 & 6); and (4) the right to freely express views and to
be heard (Articles 12 & 13). This paper will examine the theoretical relevance
and practical ramifications of the Convention to Bahá’í community life and the
overall aims of the Bahá’í Faith.
Children’s Participation: Definition and Debate
Children’s participation is attracting growing attention from a multitude of
academics and practitioners alike. An explanation for this interest lies in the
ontological presumption that children possess capabilities and are seen as full
human beings (i.e. they are not people who only become fully human when they
become adults; a world view of some considerable prevalence). The CRC
recognises that children are not mere dependants, the property of parents or
guardians.45 Children are increasingly competent and are genuinely interested
in what is going on around them, especially that which affects them. Whilst they
are in need of protection they have strengths. This presumption includes the
notion that children’s views and opinions are significant and are the by-product
of their capability to reflect, analyse and consider consequences. From this
perspective, children and youth, when encouraged, become agents of social
change, active and involved citizens in society, to the extent of their individual

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
and collective developing capacities, maturity and competence.46 Early research
in this area would appear to validate this hypothesis.
Gillian Mann, a researcher on care and protection of separated children at
the Refugee Studies Centre in the UK, invokes a broad denotation of participa-
tion as “taking part in a social process.”47 With specific reference to children’s
participation, though, Mann defines it as:
…the process of children’s involvement in the decisions which affect them and the com-
munity in which they live. To be genuine and effective, it means listening to children and
respecting their views and the way in which they choose to express them. It involves
recognising and nurturing their strengths, interests and abilities through the provision of
meaningful opportunities to contribute to their own development and that of their peers,
families and communities. In this way, child participation encourages reciprocal learning
between children and adults as well as the establishment of respectful horizontal relation-
ships across generations.48
Mann’s definition is very helpful in that it describes, in clear terms, the
developmental processes and outcomes associated with child participation. It
is also very useful due to the emphasis it places on self-actualising human po-
tential in contrast to the traditional view that external forces (e.g. parents, guard-
ians, teachers, etal) bear exclusive responsibility for the shaping and moulding
of a child’s character. Finally, Mann’s denotation incorporates the concepts of co-
operation, tolerance and mutual respect, concepts implied in her references to
“reciprocal learning” and “respectful horizontal relationships.”
As helpful as Mann’s definition is, this author proposes an alternative that is
meant to be more specifically relevant to the thesis of this paper in that it endeavours
to embody the aspects of spirituality and social transformation. For the purpose
of this paper, then, children’s participation refers to:
Processes that empower children to take responsibility for their spiritual development, to
foster a sense of moral purpose and pro-social attitudes in order to engage—to the extent
of their individual and collective developing capacities and in an authentic manner—in
actions, behaviour and forms of service that will contribute to social transformation
characterised by unity, justice, co-operation, reciprocity, and mutual respect and helpful-
ness.
Classic reactions to the concept of children’s participation range from out-
right scepticism to a concern “that children’s rights conflict with the rights of

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
parents and adults.”49 On the one hand, there are those who feel that the partici-
pation of children in community or state affairs is ludicrous; a cute but meaning-
less activity for which they have little capacity and that has no place in the “real”
world. Situated at another point on the spectrum are those adults who are threat-
ened by the notion of children’s rights and participation out of a fear of losing
control. In Uganda, for instance, many still hold the view that the reason for
children’s existence is the satisfaction of adult needs and interests.50
There are several possible rejoinders to these concerns, two of which will
be made here. The first and most obvious is that children’s participation is
established in international law as a legitimate, inalienable right, or entitle-
ment. There are, fortunately, several additional reasons that justify the impor-
tance of children’s participation that extend beyond the legal argument. Although
there are many justifications for children’s participation, Mann provides an ex-
cellent formulation. The advantages of authentic children’s participation, according
Benefits to the Child
Benefits to the Family
Benefits to the
Community
1) they develop a sense of
personal competence, self-
confidence & sense of pur-
pose in their lives.
1) parents & guardians
become increasingly aware
of a child's competence &
strengths.
1) when children become
involved in community
activities, their skills &
abilities become apparent
to others.
2) they acquire/expand
skills in problem-solving,
negotiation & commun-
ication.
2) parents & guardians gain
important insights into the
reality of children's lives.
2) people come to rec-
ognise children's capacity to
prioritise their concerns,
formulate ideas & work
toward solutions.
3) they learn to empathise &
co-operate with others.
3) it develops mutual
respect between parents &
children.
3) people appreciate that
children bring creativity &
understanding to issues in
the community.
4) it promotes social
responsibility.
4) The recognition of chil-
dren as social actors
contributes to the social
capital of the community &
to im-proved quality of life.
5) less likely to accept
problematic situations as
being out of their control.
6) it fosters the devel-
opment of citizenship.
7) it prepares children to
work together for change.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
to Mann, manifest themselves in three distinct ways: (a) benefits to the child,
(b) benefits to the family, and (c) benefits to the community. The following
table summarises Mann’s thinking according by category:
Coincidentally, Mann’s categorisations—that is the manner in which the ben-
efits of children’s participation accrue not only to the child but to the family and
community as well—would seem to reinforce Bahá’í thought regarding the
interconnectedness of individual and societal development. As cited earlier, the
Bahá’í Faith seeks neither the “devotion of the cult of the individual” nor the “deifi-
cation of the State” but, rather, healthy and mutually supportive relationships be-
tween the constituent members of society deriving from a “…consultative
framework made possible by [a] consciousness of the organic unity of human-
kind…” In this sense, Mann’s analysis appears to bear out the truth of George
Bernard Shaw’s aphorism : “We are members of one another; so that you cannot
injure or help your neighbour without injuring or helping yourself.”
Effective Participation of Children: Exemplary Evidence
Despite the fact that the philosophy and practice of child participation is
still in an embryonic state there is growing empirical evidence demonstrating
that children’s participation can foster responsible behaviour and practice and
meaningful social change. In Budapest, for example, children between the ages
of ten and fifteen manage (with the exception of the engine driver) the Pioneer
Railway, a thirteen mile-long track carrying children and tourists on field trips
through scenic areas overlooking the Danube River.51 Children from five schools
in Rochdale, Lancashire conducted research, jointly with the local police force,
as part of the Rochale Safer Cities Programmes, on problems associated with
the security of the city’s elderly residents. This child-led research activity led
to recommendations for specific low-cost crime prevention measures for these
vulnerable citizens.52
The Greenlit programme in the UK is an intervention wherein children
between the ages of ten and thirteen submit proposals to companies for reno-
vating land damaged or neglected by businesses. Through a process of consul-
tation, the proposals are agreed then funded by the corporations. Children are
responsible for the full spectrum of activities—e.g. site surveys, analysis, de-
sign, costing and implementation of the project.53 In Bolivia, Save the Children
Canada facilitates a project known as the “Leadership of Children in Integrated
Community Health.” Having identified health issues to be a major concern in
the communities, the children were then trained as community health promot-
ers in the concepts of traditional and modern medicine and provided with first
aid kits. “These children are now responsible for these kits in their communi-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
ties. They alone are able to detect and resolve simple respiratory problems
and diarrheal disease, and clear up minor injuries.”54
During the recent Great Lakes Region Consultation on the Protection and
Development of Children Affected by Armed Conflict held in Kampala Uganda
in December 2000, five children from war torn Eastern Congo participated in
a workgroup session whose purpose was to allow the children, aged between
twelve and fifteen (two of whom had served in active combat with the brutal
local Mai-Mai rebels over a two year period) to identify the characteristics of
a good national or community leader. The characteristics identified by the chil-
dren were someone who is: loving, will give advice, not greedy, honest, clean
of body, respectful of others, sincere, and a unifier (i.e. someone who doesn’t
bring conflict). These are remarkable insights with profound implications for
systems of governance if we are to take these views seriously. Adult reaction
to the first characteristic (to be loving) was fascinating. The moment the term
was mentioned the adults interrupted in an attempt to convince the children that
the necessary qualities for leadership were to be strong, to be powerful and so
forth, characteristics typically associated with an authoritarian style of gover-
nance. Despite this intervention and after much debate, the children insisted
that “to be loving” was a vital quality for good leadership and continued to
itemise the other characteristics heretofore cited.55
Children in the Bahá’í Community: Prospects for Participation
A comparison between the Bahá’í writings and the CRC reveals remarkable
congruence in thought, intent and spirit concerning child rights and child devel-
opment. This is perhaps not surprising in light of the importance placed on
human rights by Bahá’u’lláh.
On the other hand, there are a number of Bahá’í laws that could be consid-
ered inconsistent with the CRC, although no value judgement is attributed to
either Bahá’í law or the CRC in making this observation. An example of this
concerns the age limit defining the status of a child. The Convention defines a
child as “every human being below the age of eighteen years unless under the
law applicable to the child, majority is attained earlier.”56 The latter part of this
definition is in reference to country specific laws that may set an age limit lower
than eighteen. Bahá’í law uses the term “age of maturity” and sets this at fifteen
years. Fifteen is the age at which a person is deemed capable of making inde-
pendent decisions regarding one’s religious affiliation and other matters af-
fecting their spiritual development. It is the age at which, should one decide to
declare themselves a Bahá’í, an individual is required to assume responsibility

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
for observing Bahá’í law (e.g. fasting, prayer, etc.) and is the minimum age at
which marriage can occur.57
It is interesting to note, however, that whereas in most countries the age of
majority generally corresponds to other civic rights such as the right to vote,
within the Bahá’í Faith the age of maturity “…relates only to purely spiritual
functions and obligations and is not related to the degree of administrative
capacity…”58 Hence, the minimum voting age; a term referring both to one’s
eligibility to vote and to be voted for; is twenty-one. Service on elected Bahá’í
local and national administrative institutions (a form of service that approxi-
mates, in terms of mandate and scope, to the responsibilities of municipal coun-
cils and national governments) is another feature unique to the Bahá’í Faith.
Whilst in most countries the right to vote is applicable once an individual
reaches 18 years of age, the majority of the world’s nations set the eligible age
for service on municipal and nationally elected governing bodies much higher.
Voting rights in the Bahá’í community, on the other hand, carry with them both
the right and responsibility to vote and to serve on administrative institutions.
Despite the twenty-one year age restriction, Bahá’í youth are not prohibited
from participating on various committees, whether, national or local, and are, in
fact, strongly encouraged to engage in all aspects of Bahá’í work considering their
capabilities to be of “…great assistance to the Cause even though not yet le-
gally of age.”59 Explanations as to why the minimum voting is set at twenty-one
are as yet sketchy but are no doubt, in the opinion of the author, strongly corre-
lated to a minimum level of maturity and life experience required to serve on
elected institutions which shoulder onerous responsibilities in the provision of guid-
ance and support to Bahá’í communities and individuals. Whilst the age of twenty-
one is currently applicable, it would appear that this age will be subject to
review. In His Directives of the Guardian, Shoghi Effendi indicates that voting
rights are fixed at twenty-one “…for the present.”60
Participation is central to the Bahá’í concept of a vibrant and healthy commu-
nity. Participation, in a Bahá’í social context, is a process whereby community
members are “…engaged in applying knowledge to create well-being, thereby
generating new knowledge and contributing in a substantial and meaningful
way to human progress.”61 Admittedly, however, whilst there is no evidence in
Bahá’í literature proscribing the participation of children in community affairs—
indeed, there are numerous examples of children making outstanding, even
heroic, contributions throughout Bahá’í history—these examples are the ex-
ception rather than the rule. The Universal House of Justice plainly states that:
“Even though children’s activities have been a part of past Plans, these have
fallen short of the need.”62

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
The November 26, 1999 and Ridvan 2000 messages63 from the Universal
House of Justice concerning children and junior youth suggest a fundamental
shift in our concept of the potential roles for these particular community mem-
bers as it concerns community life and the progress of the Faith. Referring to
children as the “…most precious treasure a community can possess…” and a
“…trust no community can neglect with impunity…,” the Universal House of
Justice calls upon individual believers and Bahá’í institutions alike to create a
cultural milieu in which children are “…thoroughly integrated into the process
of community development…,” and made to “…feel that they belong to the
community and share in its purpose.”64 As previously explicated, this sense of
belonging and purpose can be most effectively achieved through the use of
participatory approaches.
The messages from the Universal House of Justice suggest the need for the
Bahá’ís of the world to reflect on traditional attitudes, approaches, and relationships
regarding the role of children in their own spiritual development, their roles, re-
sponsibilities and capabilities in the development of Bahá’í community life, and
their potential for making contributions to the processes of social transformation
and world unity. “Creative attention must be devoted to involving them in
programmes of activity that will engage their interests, mold their capacities for
teaching and service, and involve them in social interaction with older youth.”65
Although the Universal House of Justice places considerable emphasis on
spiritual and academic educational training (e.g. children’s classes, study circles,
training institutes and other forms of scholastic training) as the bedrock upon
which a child’s development should rest, it would seem that this “represents
only a part of what must go into developing… the characters and shaping…
personalities” of children. 66 What then are examples of other ways in which
children can be thoroughly integrated into the process of community develop-
ment so as to feel a sense of belonging and purpose? The following are a few
of the author’s suggestions, all of which are provided with the stipulation that
the participation should be calibrated to the extent of the individual and col-
lective capacities of the children:
-
The Nineteen Day Feast67: In practice, the role of children in the func-
tioning of this young institution has been consigned to the periphery.
Children attend, of course, the spiritual portion of the Feast and are oc-
casionally requested to perform certain forms of service during the event
(e.g. drama and music presentations; serving refreshments during the social
segment), but these decisions and the manner in which they are carried
out are made, for the most part, by adults on behalf of children. Yet, there
would appear to be no prohibition against children participating in plan-
ning Nineteen Day Feast programmes and schedules. This is an area of

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
service for children that could be explored by Local Assemblies. Like-
wise, the goal of thoroughly integrating children in the life of the com-
munity presents a particular challenge to Local Assemblies as it implies
a need to structure the administrative portion of the Feast in a manner
that enables children to engage meaningfully in the consultations in a
manner that would encourage them to present their views and to be as-
sured that these views are taken seriously. Consideration should be given
to the training of adults in the types of facilitation skills that foster
children’s participation. As well, some sort of a systematic method could
be developed to help children prepare themselves in advance for the
consultative segment of the Feast.
-
Appoint children as assistants to Auxiliary Board Members68: The ap-
pointment of children to this role is rather unconventional, but an idea
that has been implemented in certain countries. Not only would the prac-
tice provide the Board Members with new perspectives, it should en-
able these children to develop confidence, a healthy self-esteem, and a
sense of identity and purpose. It would, moreover, provide them with
opportunities to accelerate the development of skills and capabilities
they will need to function as adult Bahá’ís.
-
Committee appointments: Appointing children and junior youth to local
and national committees is not a common practice within the Bahá’í com-
munity. This is probably out of habit more than any other reason. Re-
search, however, has shown that children can act responsibly and make
important contributions when conditions are created for fostering their
participation. Again, specific skill sets and structures might need to be
developed in order to ensure their role is not limited to tokenistic
gestures or that they are overwhelmed by adult opinion.
-
Children and Junior Youth Projects: Children can be encouraged to plan,
implement and reflect on projects of their own making. There is suffi-
cient empirical evidence to demonstrate that children can work respon-
sibly on service projects at levels of sophistication and complexity beyond
the expectations of adults. In Kampala, Uganda, for example, as part of an
on-going Bahá’í junior youth movement, Bahá’í children redesigned and
installed a new visitors information display at the entrance of the Bahá’í
House of Worship. An expansion of this concept is that children and
junior youth can be encouraged, with the help of a skilled facilitator
during the initial stages, to participate in formal analytical and planning
sessions along with adults and to make presentations of their recommen-
dations to the Local and National Assemblies.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
-
Social and Economic Development Projects: Bahá’í children should not
merely be beneficiaries of social and economic development, or com-
munity development, projects. As demonstrated in the section entitled
“Effective Participation of Children: Exemplary Evidence,” children can
play a central role in planning, implementing and evaluating a wide range
of projects such as in the areas of primary health care, education and the
environment, to name but a few. Since Bahá’í social and economic devel-
opment projects are ultimately intended to benefit non-Bahá’ís as well
as Bahá’ís, children’s participation would have the added advantage of
providing Bahá’í children with opportunities to interact with the entire
community (i.e. with non-Bahá’í community members) in an integrative
and constructive way.
These are but a few of the possibilities that can be considered by Bahá’í
communities around the world. The purpose of this section was not to exhaust
all options but, rather, inspired by the Messages from the Universal House of
Justice, to provoke news ways of thinking about advancing the goal of integrat-
ing children into the life of the community and preparing them for a life of
service out of a selfless desire to be of service to humanity. The possibilities
are endless. What is required is a willingness to challenge accepted conven-
tions and attitudes concerning children and the roles they have historically been
assigned to play within the community.
Conclusion
This paper endeavoured to examine new concepts about the roles and re-
sponsibilities of children in the Bahá’í community, admittedly through a rather
circuitous, but nevertheless important, route. Through his exploration of the
universality of human rights, the author validated the claim for children—as
members of the human race and individuals in their own right—to access the
full spectrum of rights and responsibilities set forth in the UDHR and the CRC.
The author’s treatment of the spiritual origins of human rights and his review of
the Universal House of Justice’s messages on the subject of children and junior
youth sought to expand the Bahá’í community’s understanding of the nature of
and scope for children in assuming responsibility for their own spiritual trans-
formation, promoting the development of the Bahá’í community, and contribut-
ing to the process of the unification of the human race.
Based on studies and reports from experts in this field, evidence was pro-
vided illustrating the tremendous potential and capabilities latent within chil-
dren to act as agents of social change, particularly when appropriate facilitation
methods are employed that are calibrated to their individual and collective

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
developmental stages. A major theme of this paper is that children are more
capable than generally credited by adults—a mindset not restricted to non-
Bahá’í communities—and that they are competent, genuinely interested in what
is going on around them, and capable of making contributions to affect change.
The author argued that children’s participation is potentially a significant con-
tributor to the achievement of sustainable peace and security in the world.
The paper concluded with a series of recommendations to the Bahá’í com-
munity as to how children can be “…thoroughly integrated into the process of
community development…” and made to “…feel that they belong to the com-
munity and share in its purpose.” Whilst these recommendations may challenge
current Bahá’í social conventions regarding children, it is felt that they are,
nonetheless, consistent with the guidance provided by the Universal House of
Justice. Bahá’u’lláh’s exhortation to bring into being “…a new race of men”69
obligates the Bahá’í community to stretch the boundaries of social conventions
and to introduce and put into practice new values and behaviour based on co-
operation, tolerance and justice. This obligation applies equally to our atti-
tudes, concepts and vision about children, a vision that is well captured in the
following citation by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
I pray in behalf of these children and beg confirmation and assistance for them from the
Kingdom of Abhá so that each one may be trained under the shadow of the protection of
God, each may become like a lighted candle in the world of humanity, a tender and
growing plant in the rose garden of Abhá; that these children may be so trained and
educated that they shall give life to the world of humanity; that they may receive in-
sight; that they may bestow hearing upon the people of the world; that they may sow
the seeds of eternal life and be accepted in the threshold of God; that they may become
characterized with such virtues, perfections and qualities that their mothers, fathers and
relatives will be thankful to God, well pleased and hopeful. This is my wish and prayer.
ANNEX I:
‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s Summary of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings Regarding
Human Rights
Taken from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in London (1997) p. 27
Discourse of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá given at the Theosophical Head Quarters
September 30th, 1911
Firstly: Bahá’u’lláh lays stress on the search for Truth. This is most important,
because the people are too easily led by tradition. It is because of this that they
are often antagonistic to each other, and dispute with one another. But the mani-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
festing of Truth discovers the darkness and becomes the cause of Oneness of
faith and belief: because Truth cannot be two! That is not possible.
Secondly: Bahá’u’lláh taught the Oneness of humanity; that is to say, all the
children of men are under the mercy of the Great God. They are the sons of
one God; they are trained by God.… But the children of men are in need of
education and civilization, and they require to be polished, till they become
bright and shining. Man and woman both should be educated equally and equally
regarded. It is racial, patriotic, religious and class prejudice, that has been the
cause of the destruction of Humanity.
Thirdly: Bahá’u’lláh taught, that Religion is the chief foundation of Love and
Unity and the cause of Oneness. If a religion become the cause of hatred and
disharmony, it would be better that it should not exist. To be without such a
religion is better than to be with it.
Fourthly: Religion and Science are inter-twined with each other and cannot
be separated. These are the two wings with which humanity must fly. One wing
is not enough. Every religion which does not concern itself with Science is
mere tradition, and that is not the essential. Therefore science, education and
civilization are most important necessities for the full religious life.
Fifthly: The Reality of the divine Religions is one, because the Reality is
one and cannot be two. All the prophets are united in their message, and un-
shaken. They are like the sun; in different seasons they ascend from different
rising points on the horizon. Therefore every ancient prophet gave the glad
tidings of the future, and every future has accepted the past.
Sixthly: Equality and Brotherhood must be established among all members
of mankind. This is according to Justice. The general rights of mankind must be
guarded and preserved. All men must be treated equally. This is inherent in the
very nature of humanity.
Seventhly: The arrangements of the circumstances of the people must be
such that poverty shall disappear, and that every one as far as possible, accord-
ing to his position and rank, shall be comfortable. Whilst the nobles and others
in high rank are in easy circumstances, the poor also should be able to get their
daily food and not be brought to the extremities of hunger.
Eighthly: Bahá’u’lláh declared the coming of the Most Great Peace. All the
nations and peoples will come under the shadow of the Tent of the Great Peace and
Harmony - that is to say, by general election a Great Board of Arbitration shall be
established, to settle all differences and quarrels between the Powers; so that dis-
putes shall not end in war.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
Ninthly: Bahá’u’lláh taught that hearts must receive the Bounty of the Holy
Spirit, so that Spiritual civilization may be established. For material civiliza-
tion is not adequate for the needs of mankind and cannot be the cause of its
happiness. Material civilization is like the body and spiritual civilization is
like the soul. Body without soul cannot live.70
ANNEX II:
Towards a Global Ethic(An Initial Declaration)
1993 Parliament of the World’s Religions
August 28 - September 5, 1993
Chicago, Illinois, U.S.A.
www.cpwr.org/calldocs/EthicTOC.html
We affirm that a common set of core values is found in the teachings of the
religions, and that these form the basis of a global ethic.
We affirm that there is an irrevocable, unconditional norm for all areas of life,
for families and communities, for races, nations, and religions. There already exist
ancient guidelines for human behavior which are found in the teachings of the
religions of the world and which are the condition for a sustainable world order.
We consider humankind our family. We must strive to be kind and gener-
ous. We must not live for ourselves alone, but should also serve others, never
forgetting the children, the aged, the poor, the suffering, the disabled, the refu-
gees, and the lonely.
We confirm that there is already a consensus among the religions which can
be the basis for a global ethic—a minimal fundamental consensus concerning
binding values, irrevocable standards, and fundamental moral attitudes.
We all have a responsibility for a better global order. Our involvement for
the sake of human rights, freedom, justice, peace, and the preservation of Earth
is absolutely necessary. Our different religious and cultural traditions must not
prevent our Common involvement in opposing all forms of inhumanity and
working for greater humaneness. The principles expressed in this Global Ethic
can be affirmed by all persons with ethical convictions, whether religiously
grounded or not. As religious and spiritual persons we base our lives on an
Ultimate Reality, and draw spiritual power and hope therefrom, in trust, in
prayer or meditation, in word or silence. We have a special responsibility for
the welfare of all humanity and care for the planet Earth. We do not consider
ourselves better than other women and men, but we trust that the ancient wis-
dom of our religions can point the way for the future.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
We are convinced of the fundamental unity of the human family on Earth.
By a global ethic we do not mean a global ideology or a single unified
religion beyond all existing religions, and certainly not the domination of one
religion over all others. By a global ethic we mean a fundamental consensus on
binding values, irrevocable standards, and personal attitudes.
Footnotes
An-Ni’am, A. (1994). What do we mean by universal? Index on Censorship, 4/5. p. 121.
See, for example, Human Rights Watch’s 1999 World Report : “Today, human rights are well
established as the legitimate concern of all humanity. Governments regularly comment on each
other’s rights practices and make respect for human rights an important factor in their aid relation-
ships. “ Human Rights Watch (1999). Introduction. A Legitimate Concern.World Report. www.igc.org/
hrw/worldreport99/intro/index.html.
The UDHR was adopted and proclaimed by General Assembly Resolution 217A (III) of Decem-
ber 1948. www.un.org/Overview/rights.html.
Its secular tone and bias towards individual freedom at the expense of individual responsibil-
ity towards the community and various religious value systems.
Reference here is made to the Universal House of Justice letter dated November 26, 1999 and
the Ridván 2000 message issued to the Bahá’ís of the World in April, 2000. The Bahá’í adminis-
trative structure is comprised of two pillars: (a) the elected bodies and (b) the appointed
bodies. Whilst possessing unique roles and responsibilities, these two bodies work together in
an integrative and harmonious manner. All the institutions within each of these bodies fall under
the guidance of the Universal House of Justice, the 9 member supreme governing body of the
Bahá’í Faith. Conceived by Bahá’u’lláh, “…the institution of the Universal House of Justice is
established on principles laid down in the Bahá’í sacred writings. … Basing itself on the authority
conferred on it by the Founder of the Faith, the Universal House of Justice has stood as the
acknowledged central authority in the worldwide Bahá’í community since 1963.” (Bahá’í Interna-
tional Community (1998). The Bahá’í World—1996-97. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications.
p. 9). The Universal House of Justice is elected on a five year cycle by the membership of all
national Bahá’í councils around the world. Nine member national Bahá’í councils, or Spiritual
Assemblies, govern the affairs of national communities, which are established in more than 230
countries and territories. The National Spiritual Assemblies are responsible for the full spec-
trum of administrative and spiritual matters of concern to the national Bahá’í community includ-
ing, inter alia, the growth of the Faith, the consolidation of the Faith, adjudicating in personal
conflict or problems, and external affairs. The National Spiritual Assemblies are elected annually
by delegates who are themselves elected through universal suffrage. The third tier of the
elected pillar is the local Bahá’í council, or Spiritual Assembly, a nine member governing body of
lay people who guide and administer the affairs of the community as a whole. In any community
where there are nine or more adult Bahá’ís (i.e. twenty one years of age or above) a Local
Spiritual Assembly is elected on an annual basis through universal suffrage. The responsibilities
of the Local Spiritual Assemblies are roughly equivalent to that of the National Spiritual Assem-
bly as it relates to their local jurisdiction. The appointed Body is also comprised of three
Institutions. The Institutions of this Body are not responsible for the administrative of the
affairs of the Faith. Their primary role is to advise, inspire and stimulate members of the Bahá’í
community to various forms of service. They also advise National and Local Spiritual Assem-
blies. The members of the Continental Board of Counsellors are responsible for fulfilling these

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
functions across a continent for which they are appointed. They in turn appoint and oversee the
work of the Auxiliary Board Members who undertake this work within discrete administrative
areas within a country. Auxiliary Board Members appoint Assistants who perform these func-
tions within a specified geographical area generally covering several local Bahá’í communities.
Bahá’u’lláh (1997). Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 215. Bahá’u’lláh
(1817—1892), né Mirzá Husayn-Alí, is the Founder-Prophet of the Bahá’í Faith. During [His] long
years of exile and imprisonment, Bahá’u’lláh revealed the equivalent of over 100 volumes of
writings, consisting of laws and ordinances of His dispensation, letters to the kings and rulers of
the East and the West, mystical teachings, and other divinely inspired writings. “In His Will and
Testament, Bahá’u’lláh appointed His eldest son, … ‘Abdu’l-Bahá [1844—1921], as His successor
and sole authoritative interpreter of His teachings. … ‘Abdu’l-Bahá appointed His eldest grand-
son, Shoghi Effendi [1896—1957], to succeed Him after His passing as Guardian of the Bahá’í
Faith and authorised interpreter of its teachings” (Bahá’í International Community (1998). The
Bahá’í World—1996 - 97. pp. 5-6). “Following the death of Shoghi Effendi the world Bahá’í
community has been directed by the Universal House of Justice …” (Huddleston, John (1998).
The Search for a Just Society. p. 401).
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1997). Promulgation of Universal Peace . San Juan: MARS, Crimson Publications.
Whilst the UDHR presents an extensive array of rights, for ease of reference and for the
purposes of this paper, they are classified into the following broad categories: civil, political,
economic, social, and cultural, a classification taken from the International Bill of Right (IBHR).
The IBHR “…consists of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Cov-
enant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights and its two Optional Protocols. The United Nations High Commissioner for
Human Rights. Fact Sheet No.2 (Rev.1). The International Bill of Human Rights, Background.
www.unhchr.ch/html/menu6/2/fs2.htm#background.
An-Ni’am, A. pp. 120-1.
10 Sen, A. (1999). Development as Freedom New York, NY: Alfred A. Knopf, Inc. p. 227.
11 See Sen. pp. 227-48. The legitimacy critique refers to an “insistence that rights must be seen in
postinstitutional terms as instruments, rather than as a prior ethical entitlement [which] mili-
tates, in a rather fundamental way, against the basic idea of universal human rights” (Sen. p. 229).
The coherence critique “takes the view that rights can be sensibly formulated only in combina-
tion with correlated duties. A person’s right to something must, then, be coupled with another
agent’s duty to provide the first person with that something. Those who insist on that binary
linkage tend to be very critical, in general, of invoking the rhetoric “rights” in “human rights”
without exact specification of responsible agents and their duties to bring about the fulfillment
of these rights. Demands for human rights are, then, seen just as loose talk” (Sen. p. 230).
12 It is of relevance to note that more than 1,300 civil society organisations played a pivotal role
in pursuing the development of the UDHR. Cultural relativists, however, would no doubt point
out that all of these organisations were American.
13 Fifty-eight countries participated in a three year consultative process before the Declaration was
adopted. The Declaration was passed by 48 members with 8 abstentions and two member
countries absent from the vote. However, there is a certain validity to the cultural relativists
perspective in that of these 58 countries the majority were Western with a significant number
actively colonising much of the world’s territory at that time.
14 Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute (2000). Know your rights, standard of achievement.
www.udhr.org/history/default.htm. Cumaraswamy, D. P. (December 1997). The Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights - Is it Universal? Human Rights Solidarity, vol. 7, no. 7. Asian Human Rights
Commission Publications. www.ahrchk.net/solidarity/199712/v712_10.html.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
15 ibid.
16 See note number 6 for an explanation of the role of Shoghi Effendi.
17 The Bahá’í concept of a unified world order and universal values and norms.
18 Shoghi Effendi (1938). The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. pp.
41-2.
19 An-Na’im; Sen. p. 231-46.
20 Cumaraswamy. p. 3: “Many Asian non-governmental organisations (NGOs), intellectuals and
ethnic and cultural minorities, gathering in Bangkok at the same time as the Asian States met,
issued the NGO Bangkok Declaration that presented a clear contrast to human rights relativism.
They upheld the universality of human rights and argued that cultural and religious traditions did
not constitute an obstacle to the realisation of international human rights norms.”
See Ramsery Colloquium (April 1998). On Human Rights, the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights Fifty Years Later: A Statement of the Ramsey Colloquium. The Journal of Religious and
Public Life. FirstThings.com. www.firstthings.com/ftissues/ft9804/ramsey.html.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 168.
Bahá’í International Community (1995). The Prosperity of Humankind. London: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust. pp. 10-12.
24 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 18.
The Vienna Declaration. Quoted by Cumaraswamy. No. 5.
26 Keown, Damien (1995). Are there “Human Rights” in Buddhism? Journal of Buddhist Ethics .
London: University of London, Goldsmiths. pp. 1-2. jbe.la.psu.edu/2/keown2.html. See, for
example: “It might be suggested, in defense of Buddhism, that concern for human rights is a
postreligious phenomenon which has more to do with secular ideologies and power-politics
than religion, and it is therefore unreasonable to accuse Buddhism of neglect in this area” (p. 1)
and “The concept of a “right” has a long intellectual history in the West,” (p. 2).
27 Havel, V. (1994) The Need for Transcendence in the Postmodern World. p. 3. www.worldtrans.org/
whole/havelspeech.html; Feiser, James, ed. (1997). Internet Encyclopaedia of Philosophy.  p. 4.
www.utm.edu/research/iep/; An-Na’im. pp. 127-8. In a speech made in 1994 in the USA, Havel
critiques the modernist concept that “This modern anthropocentrism inevitably meant that He
who allegedly endowed man with his inalienable rights began to disappear from the world. …
The existence of a higher authority than man himself simply began to get in the way of human
aspirations.”
28 Natural Law. In Feiser, James, ed. www.utm.edu/research/iep/n/natlaw.htm.
29 ibid.
30 Keown. pp. 3, 6, 7, 12.
31 It would be misleading if the author did not clarify that whilst rights issues form a significant part
of Bahá’u’lláh’s discourse on social structures, conduct and regulation, as well as forms of na-
tional and international governance, due to the fact that He wrote in a revelatory style these
issues are woven randomly throughout His Tablets and Books and thus are not presented in the
codified manner normally associated with legal texts. Whilst this fact does not diminish the
validity of His pronouncements on rights issues, it must be acknowledged that Bahá’u’lláh did
not use the legal language and terminology of human rights that characterises the UDHR and
other rights documents.
32 The Writings of Bahá’u’lláh are contained in more than one hundred volumes.
33 See note number 6 for an explanation of the role of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
34 Havel. p. 4.
35 ibid.
36 `Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 99.
37 An-Na’im. pp. 120-1.
38 Bahá’í International Community. The Prosperity of Humankind. p. 6.
39 Keown.
40 Appleby, R. S. (2000). The Ambivalence of the Sacred: Religion, Violence and Reconciliation. Carnegie
Commission on Preventing Deadly Conflict. Lanham: Rowan & Littlefield Publishers, Inc. p. 2-3.
41 Ennew, J. Dr. (Summer 2000). The History of Children’s Rights: Whose Story? Cultural Survival
Quarterly. Cambridge, MA: Cultural Survival Inc. p. 46.
42 Bureau of the Preparatory Committee for the Special Session on Children (November 30,
2000). A World Fit for Children. New York. pp. 4-5. www.unicef.org/specialsession/
pro.outcome.doc.
43 Shoghi Effendi (1997). Directives of the Guardian. San Juan: MARS, Crimson Publications. p. 191.
44 Rajani, R. (Summer 2000). Questioning How We Think about Children. Cultural Survival Quarterly.
Cambridge, MA: Cultural Survival Inc. p. 41.
45 The CRC Articles most commonly referred to as providing a child participation mandate are:
Articles 12 & 13 regarding the freedom of expression; Article 14 regarding the freedom of
thought, conscience & religion; Article 15 regarding the freedom of assembly; Article 17 regarding
access to information; Article 23 regarding special support for disable children; Article 29 regard-
ing education for personal fulfilment and responsible citizenship; and Article 31 regarding play
and participation in cultural and artistic life.
46 Rajani. p. 43; Bell, B., Brett, R., Marcus, R., Muscroft, S. (1999). Children’s rights: reality or rhetoric.
In Muscroft, E., ed. The UN Convention on the Rights of the Child: The First Ten Years. London:
The International Save the Children Alliance. p. 16.
47 Mann, G. (1999). Child Participation: A Working Paper for Save the Children Canada. London:
Not published. p. 4.
48 ibid.
49 Bell, Brett, Marcus, Muscroft. p. 30.
50 Kakama, P.T. (13-14 April 1000) Parental Responsibilities and Children’s Rights. A paper presented
at the Miller du Toit Inc. Conference on The Trend from Parental Rights to Parental Responsi-
bilities and Children’s Rights, Cape Town, South Africa..
51 Hart, R. (1997). Children’s Participation: The Theory and Practice of Involving Young Citizens in
Community Development and Environmental Care. London: Earthscan Publications Ltd. p. 126.
52 ibid. p. 78.
53 ibid. p. 77.
54 Mann. p. 11.
55 This consultation was sponsored and managed by the Save the Children Alliance with the
financial assistance of the Norwegian Government. Observations cited in this section are those
of the author who participated, not only in the consultations, but in this specific workgoup.
56 CRC, Part 1, Article 1.
57 Bahá’u’lláh (1992). Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Haifa: The Universal House of Justice. pp. 113, 133-4, 170.
58 Shoghi Effendi. Directives of the Guardian. p. 85.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Human Rights and the Rights of the Child
59 ibid.
60 ibid.
61 Institute for Studies in Global Prosperity (2000). Science, Religion and Development: Some Initial
Considerations. www.globalprosperity.org/main.cfm?SID=4.
62 The Universal House of Justice (2000) Ridván Letter Written to the Bahá’ís of the World. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre. p. 8.
63 The term Ridván refers to a place and time during which Bahá’u’lláh publicly announced His
mission. Just before His banishment from Baghdad, Bahá’u’lláh and His followers spent twelve
days (between April 21 and May 2) in the Gardens of Ridván (Persian for Paradise). The Univer-
sal House of Justice issues a letter to the Bahá’ís of the World on the anniversary of this period.
The letter generally contains information about achievements of the Bahá’í Faith during the
years, an assessment of world conditions and advice and guidance about the priorities of the
Bahá’í community during the coming year.
64 Universal House of Justice (1999). Letter dated 26 November 1999 to the Bahá’ís of the World. Haifa:
Bahá’í World Centre. p. 2; Universal House of Justice. Ridván Letter Written to the Bahá’ís of the
World. p. 9.
65 Universal House of Justice. Ridván Letter Written to the Bahá’ís of the World. p. 9.
66 ibid. p. 8.
67 “The centerpiece of Bahá’í community life is the Nineteen-Day Feast. Held once every 19 days,
the Feast is the local community’s regular worship gathering. Open to both adults and children,
the Feast is the regular gathering that promotes and sustains the unity of the local Bahá’í commu-
nity. The Feast always contains three elements: spiritual devotion, administrative consultation,
and social fellowship. As such, the Feast combines religious worship with grassroots governance
and social enjoyment.” www.bahai.org/article-1-6-0-3.html.
68 See note number 5 for an explanation of Auxiliary Board Members.
69 Shoghi Effendi. Directives of the Guardian. p. 16.
70 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. pp. 27-30.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights,
Cultural Relativism and the Persecution of
the Bahá’ís in Iran
BY CHESHMAK FARHOUMAND-SIMS
In 1979, a revolutionary movement in Iran toppled the powerful regime of
Reza Shah Pahlavi. Under the leadership of the Ayatollah Khomeini, the new
regime declared itself the Islamic Republic of Iran, and established a new
government based on the Islamic Shari’a.1 In an effort to consolidate its power,
the new regime quickly began a campaign to eradicate all remnants of the pre-
vious regime and to destroy anything deemed un-Islamic. One of the earliest
victims of the clerics’ wrath was the Bahá’í community, the largest religious
minority in Iran.2 The persecution of the Bahá’ís is not a new phenomenon, and
has been a part of Bahá’í history from its founding in mid-nineteenth century
Iran. Their oppression however took on new force and intensity under a lead-
ership determined to create a ‘pure’ Islamic state, and annihilate any trace of
what it wrongly accused of as a ‘community of infidels.’ The Bahá’í community of
Iran first responded to this persecution by appealing to the state apparatus
within Iran. When these pleas for tolerance proved fruitless, Bahá’í communi-
ties outside of Iran began to appeal to their governments, the international
community and its non-governmental instruments for support. Thus began se-
vere criticism by governments and international organizations against the Is-
lamic Republic’s human rights record, and an international campaign in support
of ending the persecution of the Bahá’ís.
The persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran provides a unique case to test the
efficacy and applicability of international instruments created for the protec-
tion of human rights. This particular case study raises important questions about
the universality of human rights principles in a diverse world; the difference
between individual and group rights; and the dilemma of finding compromises
between opposing systems of law. Moreover, the Bahá’í case challenges the
international community to find creative ways to uphold and enforce the noble

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
ideals enunciated in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights fifty years ago.
It is not within the scope of this paper to adequately analyze many of the rel-
evant aspects of this discussion.3 This paper will attempt to explore these themes
by discussing the controversial universality debate surrounding the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights by comparing Western and Islamic notions of
human rights. Moreover, the paper will examine the religious justifications
provided by the Iranian regime for the persecution of the Bahá’ís, and seek to
demonstrate that there are no grounds, religious, moral or political for such
oppression.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights
The notion of human rights is not new. Although Western historians and
theorists highlight the European contribution to the development of human rights
discourse, a diverse body of literature suggests that human rights has been a
topic of discussion in many cultures throughout human history. The teachings of
all the world’s religions make reference to human rights and include thorough
philosophical dialogue on the subject. The ‘Golden Rule’ which admonishes the
treating of others as we wish to be treated, is an ideal found in the Holy Scrip-
tures of all Faiths; Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, Jainism, Confuscianism, Zoro-
astrianism, Judaism, Christianity, Sikhism, Islam and the Bahá’í Faith. 4
Furthermore, religious philosophers representing all the faiths have contrib-
uted to the development of the theory and practice of human rights within their
societies. One of the earliest historical examples of respect for human rights
is illustrated in the reign of the Persian King, Cyrus II (550 C.E.) who bestowed
citizenship and all its privileges to those the people inhabiting the lands he
conquered. It was Cyrus who ordered the rebuilding of Jerusalem and its
Temple, and returned the gold and silver vessels that King Bebuchadnezzar
had confiscated from the Jerusalem Temple years earlier.5 This clearly sug-
gests that the notion of human rights is neither new, nor Western.
The earliest Western discussions of human rights are found in the English
Magna Carta of 1215. The principles presented in this document were further
elaborated in 17th century Europe with contemporary philosophical discussions
of natural rights and the dignity of the individual by Locke, Rousseau and oth-
ers. These discussions were conceptualized within the framework of a social
contract and finally found legal expression in documents such as the English
Bill of Rights (1689), the American Declaration of Independence (1776), the
French Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen (1789), and the American
Bill of Rights (1791).6

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
It was the events of the 1940’s and the horrific realities of the Second World
War however, that served as the backdrop for a concerted and universal effort
to develop a system of international organization and human rights protection.
Prior to 1945, states were the only recognized subjects of international law, and
protected by the laws of sovereignty. The unprecedented brutality and depth
of suffering under the extremist regimes of Spain, Germany, Italy and Japan
led to such worldwide shock and disbelief that the need for protection of the
individual from state apparatus became evident and served as the impetus for
the United Nations’ 1947 appointment of the Commission on Human Rights. The
Commission was made up of representatives from 10 nations, chaired by Mrs.
Eleanor Roosevelt and given the seemingly impossible task of creating a uni-
versal code for human rights practices which would be short, simple, easy to
understand, expressive and “acceptable to all the Members of the United Na-
tions.”7 It took over eighteen months for the Commission to complete its ob-
jective, and present to the General Assembly of the United Nations a blueprint
for the worldwide promotion and protection of human rights, seen as a neces-
sary prerequisite for international peace. President Franklin Roosevelt’s 1941
speech to the US Congress which outlined the four freedoms,8 together with
drafts submitted by States and non-governmental groups served as the inspira-
tion for the text of the document. After considerable consultation and delibera-
tion, the United Nations General Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights (UDHR), on December 10, 1948.
The UDHR is perhaps one of the most significant documents written in the
history of humankind. The text of this document has been hailed as “one of the
greatest steps forward in the process of global civilization” whose impact “ex-
tends to the moral, political and legal spheres.”9 The UDHR not only lay the
foundation for international human rights law, but more importantly introduced
the individual person as a subject of international law. The rights articulated in
the UDHR can be divided into two main categories. The first group is civil and
political rights. These include the right to life, liberty and security of the per-
son; freedom from slavery and torture; equality before the law; protection
against arbitrary arrest, detention and exile; the right to a fair trial; the right to
own property and participate in politics; the right to marriage; the fundamental
freedoms of thought, conscience and religion, opinion and expression; free-
dom of peaceful assembly and association; and the right to take part in govern-
ment. The second group is economic, social and cultural rights which include:
the right to work, form and join unions; the right to an adequate standard of
living, education and full and free participation in cultural life.10
Three central principles provide the basis for these rights. The first pro-
claims that human rights are inherent. This implies that human rights “can not be

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
enumerated or deduced; they are not earned or acquired but inhere in all people
by virtue of their humanity alone.”11 The second principle delineates every
human being’s basic rights as indefeasible or inalienable, meaning that “such
rights can never be annulled or denied by outside parties or even by the af-
fected individuals themselves.12 The third and final principle declares that any
conflicts between different rights must be resolved in accordance with just and
impartial laws and procedures.13
Today, in addition to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, which with
the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and the In-
ternational Covenant on Civil and Political Rights 14 there are over eighty uni-
versal and regional conventions that provide the framework for modern
international human rights law. In adopting these instruments, “the international
community not only agreed on the content of each right set forth in the Univer-
sal Declaration, but also on measures for their implementation.”15 Moreover,
these conventions endorsed the United Nations’ resolution which stated that
“the enjoyment of civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural
rights are interconnected and interdependent.”16
Universality, Cultural Relativism and the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights
Despite the noble and progressive ideas articulated in the Universal Dec-
laration of Human Rights, the document has faced severe criticism from its
inception. Much of the controversy revolves around the question of the univer-
sality of the theory and application of the UDHR. The challenge this has pre-
sented to the human rights movement has been theoretical, practical and
political.17 And allowed many states to continue repression of their citizenry,
by arguing for cultural relativism. The controversy gained momentum in 1948,
when the American Anthropological Association published its famous state-
ment rejecting the “applicability of the Declaration of Human Rights to man-
kind as a whole” and stressing that “the rights of Man cannot be circumscribed
by the standards of any single culture, or be dictated by the aspirations of any
single people.”18 These cultural relativists contend that “other people’s truths
are contained in their own classification and understanding,” and that no one
culture offers a “self-evidently privileged standard of verity.”19 For relativists,
there are no “overarching, universal moral truths, or principles or universal
cultural ideals.”20
Other cultural relativists have focused on the ‘Western’ premise of human
rights discourse. They assert that human rights are a “Western construct with
limited applicability”21 and argue that human rights norms “possess a distinc-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
tively Western or Judeo-Christian bias, reflecting assumptions that the values
of other cultures, peoples and races are inferior.”22 Hence, the opposition of
non-Western societies to the UDHR for its emphasis on individual rights and
freedoms at the detriment of personal responsibilities to the community and
cohesive values. A third criticism questions the UDHR for its emphasis on civil
and political rights. Although the UDHR emphasizes the interdependence of
civil/political rights with social/economic/cultural rights, it has been the case
that Western members of the General Assembly tend to favour the former. The
underdeveloped world challenges this preference and argues that civil and
political rights are meaningless and irrelevant if a certain level of economic
development is not achieved by the populace. This point is well taken and
demonstrates the cultural difference in the applicability of the principles out-
lined in the UDHR.
Today, scholars supporting the notion of moral universalism pose a serious
challenge to the human rights controversy, and make it increasingly difficult for
cultural relativists to uphold their position.23 The work of these universalist
scholars - mainly anthropologists and sociologists - seems to suggest that the
debate directly relates to the relativists’ confusion between principle and ap-
plication, and illustrates that while the “concept of human rights is universal, the
content varies among different societies.”24 They defend their position by pro-
viding evidence of certain moral precepts transgress cultural and traditional
boundaries. These include the universal intolerance for lying, stealing, and
incest as well as “the prohibition of murder or maiming without justification;
economic justice; reciprocity and restitution; provisions for the poor; and pri-
ority for immaterial goods [such as freedom.]”25 The debate created enough
disunity among the nations to be one of the main points of discussion at the
World Conference on Human Rights in Vienna in 1993. Many participants at
this gathering, particularly those representing the developing world “concerned
with cultural imperialism argued that while human rights are universal, their
interpretation and implementation is subject to national and regional particu-
larities and various historical, cultural, and religious backgrounds.”26 Despite
these concerns however, the member States agreed to signing the Vienna Dec-
laration which among other things stated that, “Respect for human rights and for
fundamental freedoms without distinction of any kind is a fundamental rule of
international human rights law…” Further, the Vienna Declaration addressed
the question of cultural relativity by reaffirming that:
All human rights are universal, indivisible and interdependent and interrelated. The inter-
national community must treat human rights globally in a fair and equal manner, on the
same footing, and with the same emphasis. While the significance of national and regional

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
particularities and various historical, cultural and religious backgrounds must be borne in
mind, it is the duty of States, regardless of their political, economic and cultural systems,
to promote and protect all human rights and fundamental freedoms.27
The signing of this document does not mean there is a universal consensus
on the subject of human rights, and there is still a need to translate principle
into practice. The debate persists and serves a political purpose for the justifi-
cation of immoral acts. Opposing notions of freedom, conscience, and expres-
sion lie at the heart of this situation.
The Bahá’í Faith: An Introduction to History and Teachings
The Bahá’í Faith was founded in mid-nineteenth century Iran through the
teachings of two successive Founders who are regarded by Bahá’ís as Divine
Messengers. The first of these was a young Persian merchant from Shiraz, who
in May 1844, proclaimed that He was the bearer of the latest Revelation from
God. The Báb,28 explained that his revelation served a dual purpose: one to
reaffirm the teachings of past Faiths, and secondly to announce the imminent
appearance of yet another Divine Messenger, whose teachings would inspire
global unification and moral and spiritual transformation. The Báb’s teachings
were well-received by a great number of people, and attracted tens of thou-
sands of followers within a short time. In 1863, one of the Báb’s leading dis-
ciples, a Persian of noble birth announced that He was the Messenger whom
the Báb had referred to during His ministry. This second religious figure in
the Bahá’í Faith is known to history as Bahá’u’lláh.29 Through the power of His
person, and the force of His teachings, Bahá’u’lláh was able to affirm His claim
and within a short period of time, many surviving Bábis professed their faith in
Bahá’u’lláh. Thus began the Bahá’í Faith.
With this new development, the government of Nasir’ul-Din Shah30 decided
that the best way to destroy the Bahá’í community was to exile Bahá’u’lláh and
His family out of Iran. This exile did not extinguish the development and
spread of this young Faith, and actually promoted it. By the time of Bahá’u’lláh’s
passing, the Faith had spread beyond Iran’s borders and included followers in
the Indian subcontinent, Asia, several Arab nations and northern Africa. By the
mid-1950’s, the Bahá’í Faith had been introduced in almost every country in the
world. The central teachings of the Bahá’í Faith are: the oneness of God, the
progressive nature of divine revelation; and the oneness of humanity. The third
principle is the pivotal concept around which all other Bahá’í teachings re-
volve. These include: the abolition of all forms of prejudice; the full equality
of rights and opportunities between men and women; universal education and

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
economic justice. For the Muslim clerics of the time, one of Bahá’u’lláh’s most
contentious teachings was His insistence that “humanity has entered an age of
maturity and no longer requires clergy and ritual in its search for the Divine.
He introduced the principle of the inherent right and indeed responsibility of
each individual to investigate the truth for himself, and instituted consultation
and group decision-making as the key to individual and societal development.
Bahá’ís are also prohibited from participation in partisan politics and are obliged
to obey the laws of the government under whose authority they live.31 These
last two teachings are particularly relevant to this study and will be further
discussed.
Today, the Bahá’í Faith is recognized as a world religion and respected in
the international community not only for its social teachings but for its applica-
tion of principle to practice as demonstrated in the community’s commitment to
peace, justice, and social-economic development. The Bahá’í International Com-
munity (BIC) represents the worldwide Bahá’í community at the United Na-
tions and enjoys consultative status with UNESCO and ECOSOC. Today, there
are over five million Bahá’ís in 180 countries of the world, representing every
ethic, racial and religious background. With the absence of a clergy, the com-
munity functions on an elaborate administrative order laid down by Bahá’u’lláh
Himself. This administrative order is based on elected bodies at the local,
national and international levels.32 At the local level, adult members of the
community (age 21 and older) annually vote for nine members from the commu-
nity in an election which prohibits electioneering and nominations and is based
on secret ballots. Each community then elects a number of delegates to repre-
sent them at the national convention electing the national administrative body.
Finally, every five years, members of the National Councils elect the interna-
tional governing council, the Universal House of Justice.
The Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran: Historical Developments
Throughout history, the advent of every new religion has resulted in the
persecution of its members. Particularly in the formative phase of the religion’s
development, ‘believers’ have been the object of violence and oppression for
their spiritual convictions. The persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran is a classic
example of human rights violation resulting from religious intolerance. And,
despite Bahá’í commitment to non-violence, tolerance and governmental quies-
cence, they are classified as ‘unprotected infidels’ who do not enjoy any rights
under the present Iranian constitution.33 Much of the conflict can be attributed to
the general population’s “almost universal ignorance of the religion’s nature,
teachings and history.”34 resulting in a deep-rooted prejudice against the mem-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
bers of this community. The persecution began in 1844, when thousands began
to accept the Báb’s claim that He was the much awaited Qa’im35 of Shi’i Islam.
The Báb’s claim and His teachings, in addition to His repute attracted the atten-
tion of the Muslim clergy who saw Him as a threat and responded with brutal
force. In 1850, the Báb was executed in the city of Tabriz and the clergy began
a pogrom which resulted in the death of over 20,000 of His followers. These
incident were so large in scale and brutal in force that they “aroused the revul-
sion of Western diplomats and scholars, and deeply scarred the Persian psyche,
inspiring an effort to justify the killing of thousands of innocent people by
excoriating the victims’ beliefs and intentions.”36 The systematic effort to eradi-
cate the Bábis proved unsuccessful, but they continued to be the target of oppo-
sition and oppression under the leadership of Bahá’u’lláh.
Bahá’u’lláh’s noble lineage protected him from execution, but not from
arrest and an imprisonment which lasted 40 years. From Iran, He and his family,
and a small community of followers were exiled to Baghdad, Adrianople,
Constantinople and finally the Ottoman Empire’s prison city of Akka where He
died in 1892. The persecution of His followers continued. Under the Qajar
Kings,37 oppression of the Bahá’í community was a national policy which led to
occasional killings, usually at the hands of the populace. For example, in 1903,
101 Bahá’ís were killed in the city of Yazd after the local Mullahs encouraged
their congregation to disperse into the streets and kill any Bahá’ís they meet.38
The end of the Qajar dynasty and the beginning of the Pahlavi dynasty in 1925,
introduced a number of important changes with consequences for the Bahá’í
community. One of the goals of both Pahlavi Kings was to transform Iran into a
modern, secular state. In order to do so, they pursued a policy aimed at exclud-
ing the clergy from influencing the social and cultural aspects of Iranian society,
and began a systematic attempt to secularize the country, which included such
things as prohibiting women from wearing the traditional chador,39 and appoint-
ing highly educated individuals in positions of authority.
The Bahá’í minority, representing some of the most educated people in
Iranian society were among those appointed to posts in the civil service while
denied constitutional rights.40 The Shah also appointed a number of Bahá’ís to
prominent positions in his government. The Bahá’í law prohibiting involve-
ment in politics prevented these individuals from being able to accept these
political posts. There is only one recorded case where a Bahá’í accepted such
an appointment to the Cabinet. Consequently, his administrative rights in the
Bahá’í community were removed. It is worth noting that the Bahá’í community
provided a political pawn for the Shah. When faced with cleric opposition,
both Pahlavi Shahs used the persecution of the Bahá’í community as a means of
appeasement. These included the destruction of holy places, the closing of

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Bahá’í schools, inciting mob attacks on Bahá’ís, particularly in the rural villages,
and confiscation of property. This death and destruction was brought to the
attention of the international community by foreigners stationed in Iran, and
resulted in United Nations intervention in 1955 following a particularly violent
period.
The revolution in Iran in 1979, and the acquisition of power by the Islamic
clergy introduced a new chapter in the suppression of the Bahá’ís in Iran. Even
before the establishment of the Islamic Republic and his return to Iran, Khomeini
made his position on the Bahá’í minority very clear in an interview conducted
in December 1978, by saying that in an Islamic Iran, “Bahá’í citizens would have
no rights whatsoever.”41 In formulating a new constitution, the theocratic regime
of Ayatollah Khomeini confirmed the status of Jews, Christians and Zoroastri-
ans as ‘protected minorities’42 but the Bahá’í community was deprived of any
constitutional rights. The exclusion of the Bahá’ís from the constitution meant
that “Bahá’ís enjoy no rights of any sort, and that they can be attacked and perse-
cuted without impunity.”43 Islamic courts denied Bahá’ís of the right of redress
and protection against crimes including assault, killings and other forms of per-
secution, and ruled perpetrators as not liable for damages because their vic-
tims are “unprotected infidels.”44 The inevitable consequence of this, and the
negative messages delivered in the mosques and the media inevitably resulted
in violent incidents across the country. Bahá’ís were beaten, young girls were
kidnapped and raped, Bahá’í cemeteries were desecrated, holy places were
destroyed, and Bahá’í homes and businesses being burned. By 1980, the gov-
ernment began to participate in this campaign and prominent Bahá’ís, mostly
those serving on local and national administrative bodies were arrested and
imprisoned. This was followed by mock trials and led to the first set of execu-
tions in June 1980.45
Under government decree, Bahá’í marriages were declared null and void,
and Bahá’í marital life reduced to the status of prostitution and children de-
clared illegitimate. Bahá’í children were expelled from schools and universi-
ties, and retired Bahá’ís declared no longer eligible for pensions and ordered
to pay back the pension they had thus far received.46 At first, the response of the
Bahá’í community was to appeal to local authorities in their efforts to end the
persecution. After years of trying to no avail, the international Bahá’í commu-
nity began to bring this matter to the attention of their respective governments
while the Bahá’í International Community (BIC) at the United Nations began a
campaign to bring the plight of the Iranian Bahá’ís to the attention of the interna-
tional community through the instruments of international organization.
Documents obtained through the Iranian media found their way to Amnesty
International47 and other human rights organizations which immediately exposed

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
the Iranian objective to completely obliterate the Bahá’í community in Iran.
This led to almost universal international outrage; leading to severe criticism
of the Iranian government from individual governments and within the United
Nations. Despite the international condemnation, more than 200 Bahá’í men,
women and children were executed by the Iranian government between 1978
and 1988. Many others were arrested, disappeared, and were presumed dead.
One particularly disturbing incident involved the hanging 10 women in the city
of Shiraz, for their refusal to recant their Faith and convert to Islam.48 The
women ranged in age from 16, to the early twenties and two were senior citi-
zens. Their execution followed the execution two days earlier of six men,
which included the husbands, fathers and sons of four of these women.49 The
judge presiding over their trials was quoted in the Iranian newspaper Khabar-
i-junúb, as saying “If the Bahá’ís do not recant their faith, the day will soon come
when the Islamic nation will God willing fulfill the prayer of Noah: Lord leave
not one single family of infidels upon the earth.”50
In August 1983, the Public Prosecutor of the Islamic Revolution declared
that Bahá’í religious institutions should be banned, its institutions ordered to
dissolve and its members declared guilty of criminal offenses.51 In accordance
to the Bahá’í law of obedience to one’s government, the Bahá’í community im-
mediately complied and dissolved its local and national administrative bodies,
and ended all administrative activities. Letters were sent to the government to
announce the community’s compliance with the decree, and asked to be allowed
to practice their Faith in the privacy of their own home. On 21 September 1983,
the prosecutor-general released a statement announcing that,
If a Bahá’í himself performs his religious acts in accordance with his own beliefs, such a
man will not be bothered by us, provided he does not invite others to the Bahá’í Faith, does
not teach, does not form assemblies, does not give news to others, and has nothing to do
with the administration.52
This statement however, did not protect the Bahá’ís from further oppression
and was followed by a new series of arrests and executions. This resulted in
new international opposition and a series of United Nations resolutions against
Iran. The Iranian government responded by reducing the number of executions
and releasing a number of Bahá’í prisoners. The international community how-
ever continued its protest and called for the immediate release of all Bahá’í
prisoners and the exercise of tolerance toward the Bahá’í community.
In 1984, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights adopted a new
resolution calling for the appointment of a special representative, responsible

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
for the human rights situation in Iran, and the treatment of Bahá’ís in that country.
Mr. Andres Aguilar was appointed to the post and was replaced in 1986 by Mr.
Reynaldo Galindo Pohl who made three visits to Iran under the mandate of the
United Nations Human Rights Commission. In anticipation of Mr. Pohl’s first
visit in January 1990, the Iranian government began to release a large number
of the more than 750 imprisoned Bahá’ís. Moreover, Bahá’í children were al-
lowed to return to school, but still forbidden university attendance. While the
BIC acknowledged the improvement in conditions in Iran vis-à-vis the Bahá’ís,
it noted that the Bahá’ís were still denied access to their holy places, prohib-
ited from practicing their Faith and excluded from the constitution. This was
confirmed by Mr. Pohl’s report. Mr. Pohl was invited for a second visit in Octo-
ber 1990. This trip proved less fulfilling than the first, as illustrated in Mr.
Pohl report stating that
With respect to the situation of the Bahá’í minority, many documents signed by adminis-
trative authorities have been received, providing evidence of discrimination, confiscation,
rejection by universities, suspension of pension, demands for the return of pensions earned
and paid, denial of passports and other irregularities … This keeps the Bahá’ís in a per-
petual state of uncertainty about their activities. The government should therefore be
requested to take effective action to ensure that these Iranian citizens enjoy the same
civil and political rights as the rest of the population.53
A third visit was initiated in December 1991 to assess improvements in Iran
resulted in more severe criticism of Iran’s human rights practices, particularly
against the Bahá’ís who did not present any threat to the Islamic regime and its
mandate. This third report noted that while there had been no further execu-
tions, harassment and discrimination continued in the same manner as stated in
the representative’s previous report. Following these harsh reports, the situa-
tion of the Bahá’ís seemed to worsen. For the first time in four years, a Bahá’í
prisoner was executed in March 1992. This was followed by several random
murders and two more execution orders.
In 1993, a secret government memorandum drafted by the Supreme Revolu-
tionary Cultural Council discussing the policy relating to the ‘Bahá’í question’
was discovered.54 This document clearly stated that the government’s objective
is to ensure that the “progress and development” of the Bahá’í community “shall
be blocked.”55 The paper included the signature of President Ali Kham8enei
and exposed the true intention of the Iranian government toward the Bahá’í
community. The situation of the Bahá’ís has somewhat improved since 1992.
Although two Bahá’ís were killed in 1997 - and four are presently under death
sentence, two of these for apostasy - the number of Bahá’í prisoners has been

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
reduced to less than 20. Children are again allowed to register and attend school,
and Bahá’ís are more easily able to travel to and from the country. But this does
not mean that Bahá’ís live freely without harassment and discrimination. They
may be arrested for religious belief. Bahá’í youth are still prohibited from
attending university and most recently the fourth year of high school. Employ-
ment discrimination continues in the form of denial of jobs and pensions, and
the right to inherit property is denied. Most importantly, they are denied the
freedom to practice their Faith as a community, and to elect administrative
bodies despite the fact that “they have never engaged in illegal activity nor
participated in any form of opposition to the government.”56
The Ideological Roots of the Persecution of the Bahá’ís In Iran
There are two ideological sources to the persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran,
one theological, and the other social. The first relates to the Bahá’í belief that
Bahá’u’lláh is the latest Messenger of God with teachings for this age in the
development of humanity. According to Muslim interpretations of the Qur’an,
the Prophet Muhammad is the last of God’s Divine Messengers, the seal of the
prophets.57 In light of this verse and its interpretation, Bahá’ís are seen as her-
etics and apostates who have renounced the true religion of God for belief in
heresy. This classification of Bahá’ís as apostates condemns them to death as
prescribed by the Qur’an and the Sunna.58
The second pertains to particular teachings in the Bahá’í Faith that were (and
are) perceived as a threat to the Islamic establishment and social order. The
most contentious of the Bahá’í teachings from the perspective of the Muslim
clergy has been those pertaining to equality of rights and opportunities for the
sexes, which has been regarded as a moral threat, and the abolition of the
clergy which they perceived “would bring to an end the system of tithes, en-
dowments, social precedence, and political power which they have always re-
garded as their religious right.”59 Both of these, played a role in provoking the
latest episode of persecutions in Iran. The accusation of apostasy however, has
served as the most profound premise for persecution. This relates directly to
Western and Islamic notions of human rights and particularly the freedom of
conscience and religion.
Western Notions of Human Rights
Present-day Western (Judeo-Christian based) and Islamic notions of what
constitutes individual human rights and freedoms are deeply tied to the his-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
torically related philosophical developments within each of these civiliza-
tions. The history of Western Christianity illustrates a constant struggle to dis-
tinguish between the ‘personal’ and the ‘external’ which in society has translated
into a separation between church and state, thus “restricting the legitimate con-
trol of civil coercion over religious life.”60 As Little explains,
…to hold that true belief is not a matter of external causes, but of deeply felt inward
motions, is to affirm, by implication, the importance of establishing a “free zone” where
individuals are permitted to negotiate their spiritual life according to the dictates of their
own best inner judgment.61
Early Christianity focused on the intensifying of the inner, personal experi-
ence and contributed to the development of the idea of conscience as a natural
and abiding focus of attention which served as “a private monitor, as a deeply
internal self-reflective and self critical operation that defined, at bottom, what
it meant to be a self or a person.”62 Hence Christian thought came to admonish
freedom of conscience. The writings of Thomas Aquinas and St. Augustine were
instrumental in this development. Little explains that for Aquinas “a person’s
will is totally dependent upon the recommendations for action put to it by the
conscience” and therefore “the argument moves in the direction of tolerating
conscientiously held beliefs and actions with which one may profoundly dis-
agree.”63 D’arcy’s study of Aquinas and Augustine shows that both agree that “The
act of faith is essentially a free act; without an interior, free choice of the will
there is no valid act of faith at all. It is therefore not lawful to use compulsion
in any way to force Jews or pagans to accept the Christian Faith.”64 In the final
analysis, as St. Augustine affirms that “a person can do other things against his
will; but belief is possible only in one who is willing… unwilling belief is an
impossibility. The only valid act of faith is that which proceeds from a free,
interior choice.”65 This has translated into practice in the way that Christians - in
general - may disagree with another creed, but will not seek to force change.
These Western ideals have clearly inspired the relevant portions of all
United Nations documents relating to human rights, and particularly those dis-
cussing the freedom of conscience and religion. These documents define the
individual person as, “a spiritually free being who is, within wide limits, ac-
corded sovereignty over mind, conscience, and spirit…”66 This leads to the
belief that,

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
…the right to religious freedom and conscience rests upon the deep conviction that
human beings are fulfilled in being guided by ‘reason’ and by persuasion, rather than by
external ‘causes’ and controls. In short, to conceive of human beings in terms of an indefea-
sible ‘right to freedom of thought , conscience, religion and belief’ in the words of the
Declaration against Intolerance, is itself to affirm and to seek to guarantee the ‘natural’
irreducibility of the human spirit.67
Islamic Notions of Human Rights
Unlike Christianity, Islam does not make a separation between the spiritual
and the civil. For Muslims, the Qur’an represents a complete book of laws
pertaining to one’s spiritual as well as social existence. Hence, there is no
separation in Islam between ‘church’ and state. As seen under the leadership of
the Islamic caliphs, spiritual and temporal power were inseparable and inter-
connected.
In matters of law, Islam does not make a separation between the spiritual
and the civil, and Muslims agree that the Quran is the undisputed source of all
law in Islamic society. Of the approximately 500 Quranic verses, approxi-
mately 80 are considered as articles of code, and beyond this, Muslims rely on
sunna, ijma, and Qíyás for further guidance and clarification on laws:68
1. The sunna to the oral traditions that are extracted from reliable sources
about the sayings and activities of the Prophet Muhammad, providing clari-
fication about conduct.
2. Ijma refers to the decisions that are arrived at through consultation and
consensus among learned learned scholars of Islam.
3. Qíyás refers to comparison by analogy69 which provides further clarifi-
cation on laws and ordinances. Shia Islam does not use Qíyás, and pre-
fers to rely on ‘aql or reason.
Islam recognizes that human beings can reject this guidance, “although they
cannot produce any valid excuse for its rejection.”70 Hence, “human beings are
given the choice to accept or reject the faith, and they bear the consequences of
their choice.”71 Rejection leads to misguidance which the Qur’an considers as
“God’s response to unsatisfactory actions or attitudes on the part of individuals
who have chosen to reject the faith.”72 A second relevant point is the Muslim
distinction between islam (submission), and iman (faith), “that is, between a
submission to sacred authority that might be coerced or compelled by human
beings … and the faith born of voluntary consent, free of human coercive inter-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
ference, developing from a keen spiritual and moral awareness and motiva-
tion.”73 The Qur’an clearly suggests that it is God who puts iman in the heart of
man, which thereby produces islam. Qur’anic verses clearly state that compul-
sion is not allowed.74 Another example reads,
And if thy Lord had willed, whoever
is in the earth would have believed,
all of them, all together. Wouldst thou [O Muhammad]
then constrain the people, until
they are believers?
It is not for any soul to believe
save by the leave of God; and He lays
admonition upon those who have
no understanding.75
This has been interpreted to suggest that “submission to the will of God
must come through voluntary consent” and that “even the Prophet, the bearer of
revealed guidance, should not compel the people to believe.”76 Hence, the
Qur’an, the most authoritative of the three sources of jurisprudence teaches the
freedom of conscience and religion.
I have attempted to demonstrate that there is agreement in Islamic and West-
ern notions of the freedom of conscience and religion. The tolerance expressed
in Islamic scripture however, does not extend to believers who then choose to
change their faith. These individuals are designated apostates who have broken
their covenant with Allah and the Prophet, and present a threat to the umma, the
community of believers. The problem of applying Islam’s liberal principles
into practice arises then, in relation to other scripture within the Qur’an ex-
pressing intolerance for disbelief, encouraging compulsion to Islamic Faith
and prescribing severe punishing for those who do not believe. The essence
of the legitimization of the Islamic Republic’s persecution of the Bahá’í commu-
nity therefore, lies within these passages and their interpretation.
Islamic Opposition to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
Islamic opposition to the UDHR began in the early days of deliberation on
the document, and focused primarily on Article 18 which states:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes
freedom to change his religion or belief, and freedom, either alone or in a community with
others in public or in private, to manifest his religion or belief in teaching, practice, worship
and observance.77
The opposition was so great in fact, that a number of Islamic countries unsuc-
cessfully attempted to delete this article all together. Objections were ex-
pressed again in relation to two proposed sections of the International Covenant
on Civil and Political Rights, namely section 2 stating that “No one shall be
subject to coercion which would impair his freedom to have or to adopt a
religion or belief of his choice” and article 26 which added a further guarantee
of equal protection of the law against any form of discrimination “on any ground
such as race,… sex,… or religion.”78 Tabandeh explains this vehement conten-
tion as follows:
Freedom of thought, of conscience and of belief is allowable [in Islam] to the extent that
it does not clash with the Qur’an or with Islamic Canon Law. No one’s freedom gives him
the right to blaspheme or to curse God, His Prophets or His Saints. Whoso commits this sin
is liable to punishment.79
This narrow interpretation of the Qur’an’s teachings on the freedom of con-
science and religion may relate not only to the seemingly contradictory verses
in the Qur’an on the subject, but is also largely a consequence of the historical
development of Islam, and the textual and historically based preoccupation
with “the political threat of religious unbelief.”80 Hence the liberal spirit of
Islam as discussed earlier in the paper, must be weighed against statements in
the Qur’an “demanding the use of force in achieving one of the central ideals of
Islamic revelation, the creation of a just social order.”81
The historical roots of this intolerance are more profound. When the Prophet
Muhammad died in 632 C.E., there was immediate threat of division and dis-
unity within the community in regards to His successor. The community se-
lected Abu Bakr, a long time companion of the Prophet as the temporal and
spiritual leader of the uma. One of the greatest challenges facing Abu Bakr as
a new leader was to keep the tribes of Arabia united. In order to facilitate this
“Abu Bakr, and jurists since then, condemned secession from Islam (ridda) as
“an offense both against God and against the state: it is both apostasy and trea-
son.”82 This attitude illustrates the Islamic emphasis on the individual’s obliga-
tion not only to God but to community, and demonstrates the primacy of collective
over individual rights. Tabandeh articulates the Muslim position in his book A

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Muslim Commentary on the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. He explains
that:
Religious minorities who follow the one true God and the revelation given to a prophet of
His - like Jews, Christians, Zoroastrians - enjoy complete freedom within limits of their
own faith, can pursue its services and ceremonies openly and make their lives conform to
its regulations and precepts. But followers of a religion of which the basis is contrary to
Islam, like those who demand Islam’s extirpation, have no official rights to freedom of
religion in Islamic countries or under an Islamic government, nor can they claim respect
for their religion, any more than in certain countries definite political parties which are
contrary to the ideology of the regime can claim freedom since they are declared to be
inimical to the welfare of that land and people.83
Hence, the presence of non-Muslims who are not referred to in the Qur’an
as people of the book is perceived as a great threat to both Islam and its com-
munity. And for the protection of the faith, the land and the people, this pres-
ence must be controlled and if possible, removed.
The most recent Muslim opposition has been to the draft of the Declaration
on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on
Religion or Belief. Efforts there resulted in the United Nations General As-
sembly decision to change some of the wording in the Declaration referring to
the “right to choose, adopt, or change one’s religion,84 thereby allowing for
Muslim states to ratify this convention. Again, Tabandeh attempts to present the
Muslim opposition to choice and changing of faith by stating,
There are also difficulties in accepting this clause in that it affirms the individual’s freedom
to change his religion and confession … the decision to change religion may be forced on
a person under pressure or duress: or again it may be induced by false motives like the
desire to get a divorce under the easier conditions of some other doctrine. There is
however, a still more important and fundamental objection to the freedom to change
religion. No man of sense, from the mere fact that he possesses intelligence, will ever turn
down the better in favour of the inferior. Anyone who penetrates beneath the surface to
the inner essence of Islam is bound to recognize its superiority over the other religions. A
man, therefore who deserts Islam, by that act betrays the fact that he must have played
truant to its moral and spiritual truths in his heart earlier. If he pleads doubt as his reason, he
must be saved from uttering falsities by a calm discussion. These are all possible motives.
Their very nature makes it plain that they should not be given encouragement of any kind,
let alone by an international law. Such a pronouncement as this clause permitting freedom
of choice can only result in confusion both in the individual’s mind and in the moral and
spiritual stability of society.85

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
There are a number of problems associated with this statement. On the one
hand, Tabandeh acknowledges the gift of intelligence, on the other he suggests
that freedom would lead to confusion in the individual’s mind. The claim of the
superiority of Islam is also troublesome in that it presents an exclusivist and
ethnocentric view which has served as a premise for persecution throughout
Islamic history of those classified as apostates.
Allegations of Apostasy and the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Apostasy is considered the most bane of crimes in Islam, and “has come to
be included in Islamic law as one of the hudad, or capital crimes, along with
adultery, defamation and slander, alcoholism, theft, brigandage, treason, mur-
der and armed rebellion.”86 Islam distinguishes between two types of apos-
tates; The first refers to fetri apostates “who break with their faith” that is,
“whose parents are Muslims, and who was born into the Islamic ‘fetre’ or tradi-
tion, but after coming of age turns from his religion.”87 According to the Qur’an,
for these individuals there is no repentance,88 “for he has deserted his natal
faith and traditional philosophy.89 Such a person is “like a diseased member of
the body politic, gangrenous, incurable, fit only for amputation, and must be
executed.”90 Another example of a fetri apostate is one who embraces Islam and
then changes his mind. Such an individual must be reasoned with for three days.
If he does not repent and return to the Fetre, he too is punishable by death
under the law of the Shari’a.
The second category of apostasy refers to those “who break loyalty as a
citizen, e.g. one who contravenes the constitution or plays traitor against his
own government …”91 Such a person is also perceived as a threat to social
order and is punishable by death. Tabandeh and other Islamic jurists 92 adopt this
extremist position based on their interpretation of textual references that con-
demn the apostate to death. For example, Sura 4: 89 says,
They [the disbelievers] wish that you should disbelieve as
they disbelieve, and then you would be
equal; therefore take not yourselves
friends of them, until they emigrate in
the way of God; then if they turn their backs,
take them and slay them wherever you find them;
take not to yourselves any one of them as friend or helper.
And again in Sura 5:33,

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
This is the recompense of those who fight
against God and His Messenger, and hasten
about the earth, to do corruption there:
they shall be slaughtered, or crucified, or their hands and feet shall
alternately
be struck off, or they shall be banished
from the land. That is a degradation for them
in this world; and in the world to come awaits them a mighty
chastisement.
According to Sachedina, the severe prescription decreed in these Qur’anic
passages are reinforced by statements of the Prophet as reported in the hadith.
These include stories of Muhammad having said that “He who changes his reli-
gion must be killed” and by reports of apostates losing their hands and feet
before being killed during the Prophet’s lifetime.93
The question that arises in one’s mind is how can there be two different
messages expressed in the Qur’an and Sunna; one of tolerance and forbiddance
of compulsion and the other prescribing force in conversion, and death as a
punishment for those who do not. Dr. Abdullahi An-Na’im explores this dis-
crepancy in his analysis of Shari’a in the book Toward an Islamic Reformation:
Civil Liberties, Human Rights and International Law. Dr. An-Na’im points out that
whereas the Qur’anic verses revealed in Mecca encouraged peaceful persua-
sion, and allowed for the freedom of choice to accept or reject Islam, the Qur’an
and Sunna of the Medina stage sanctioned, and under certain conditions re-
quired the use of force in conversion and the punishment of death for those
who refused Islam. He explains this inconsistency by explaining that,
To reconcile these apparent inconsistencies, the founding jurists engaged in a process of
naskh (abrogation or repeal) of certain texts of the Qur’an and Sunna to produce a coher-
ent and comprehensive system of Shari’a which was consistent with the totality of the
Qur’an and Sunna. Thus, to justify compulsion as opposed to freedom of choice in religion,
and to give legal efficacy to verses sanctioning the use of force against non-Muslims and
renegade Muslims, the founding jurists deemed that the verses enjoining freedom of
choice and peaceful persuasion were abrogated or repealed by the verses authorizing
compulsion and the use of force.94
An-Na’im argues that these decisions based on ijma are inadequate and inap-
propriate because ijma is “never to be exercised in matters governed by clear
and definite texts of Qur’an and Sunna.”95 Hence, the jurists’ decision on the
subject being based on their interpretation on the Medina-stage revelation as
binding law (because they were not changed by the Prophet before his death)

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
may be flawed. And therefore, evidence that the Qur’an allowed for freedom
of choice in the practice of religion, the Shari’a is based on a more limited and
politically motivated interpretation.
The Bahá’ís have long been accused of apostasy. In the case of those who
were arrested and provided with a trial, the charge entered has always in-
cluded apostasy. In every case, Bahá’í individuals were given the opportunity
to recant their faith and return to Islam, and in so doing enjoy freedom or face
death. In the vast majority of the cases, despite severe torture and threats to
one’s families, Bahá’ís refused to denounce their faith. However, there were a
number of Bahá’ís, who did sign the statement of recantation. In these cases, the
government would publish a copy of the statement in the local newspapers as
evidence of their success.
Other Allegations Related to the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
In addition to the charge of apostasy, Bahá’ís have been accused of support-
ing the Shah’s regime; of being Western agents determined to destroy Iran’s
traditional Islamic society; and of being agents of Zionism and spies for Israel.
These are clearly false allegations. The Bahá’í duty to obey their government
would not allow for Bahá’ís to support or denounce the Pahlavi regime, and the
Bahá’í community was in no way responsible for its rise to power or its fall
therefrom. Under the Pahlavi regime, Bahá’ís did not accept political positions
in government, and focused their activities on in the civil service, non-political
positions in government, and philanthropy.
The Islamic regime’s affiliation of the Bahá’ís to Zionism and Israel stems
from the location of the Bahá’í world centre in Haifa, Israel. This is not associ-
ated in any way to Bahá’í support - or lack thereof - for the state of Israel, but
relates to the fact that Bahá’u’lláh’s last venue of exile and place of death was in
that area, then known as Palestine. Bahá’u’lláh was imprisoned, and subsequently
under house arrest in Akka, until his passing in 1892. His prison cell, his home
and his place of burial have been holy places of great significance for Bahá’ís
around the world long before the state of Israel was created. These allegations
provide the Iranian leadership with a convenient rationale to continue their
religiously motivated persecution. They and many in the general population
know that allegations of Bahá’ís political support for the governments of the
Shah, the ‘Evil West’ and Israel are completely false. Though these excuses are
used to justify persecution under the guise of treason, it is a well known fact
that the Bahá’ís are persecuted for one reason only, their religious convictions.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Conclusion
Every day, religious persecution occurs somewhere in the world. Iran is
not the only perpetrator, and the Bahá’ís are not the only victim. The Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and its associated covenants were created to end
this tragedy. Unlike previous eras, individuals and communities are theoreti-
cally protected under the various Articles of the UDHR guaranteeing a variety
of rights and freedoms. At the present time, the Bahá’ís of Iran are denied all
the rights and privileges guaranteed in the Universal Declaration, to which Iran
is a signatory. They are not entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in
the UDHR (article 2); they do not enjoy the right to life, liberty and security of
the person (article 3); they have been subjected to torture and inhuman punish-
ment (article 5); they do not have the right of recognition as a person before the
law (article 6); they do not enjoy equal protection without discrimination under
the law (article 7); they have been and continue to be subjected to arbitrary
arrest and detention (article 9); when arrested, they are not provided with a
fair and public hearing by an independent and impartial tribunal (article 10);
they are not presumed innocent until proven guilty (article 11); they have been
subjected to arbitrary interference with privacy, home, family and correspon-
dence (article 12); they did not and some still do not have freedom of move-
ment (article 13); they do not have the right to own property (article 17); they do
not have the right to freedom of conscience and religion (article 18); they do
not have the right to the freedom of peaceful assembly and association (article
19); they do not enjoy equal access to public services (article 21); they do not
have the right to social security (article 22); they are denied the right to work,
and equal pay (article 23); they do not have an adequate standard of living (ar-
ticle 25); and they are deprived of the right to education (article 26).96
The case of the Bahá’ís, and other examples of religious persecution chal-
lenge the efficacy and potency of the United Nations and the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights from protecting individuals from persecution and human
rights violations. The case of the Bahá’ís however, also shows that international
pressure can indeed bear fruit and help to protect victims of oppression. The
concerted criticism of the international community and the United Nations clearly
prevented another potential holocaust in this century. As we approach the twenty
first century, it is of utmost importance for the United Nations and its member
nations to increase their commitment and efforts to human rights protection.
One important dimension of this has been the promotion of human rights edu-
cation. Human rights education has been defined as

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
training, dissemination and information efforts aimed at the building of a universal culture
of human rights through the imparting of knowledge and skills and the molding of attitudes
which are directed to: strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental free-
doms; full development of the human personality and the sense of its dignity; promotion
of understanding, tolerance, gender equality and friendship among all the nations, indig-
enous peoples and racial, national, ethnic, religious and linguistic groups; enabling of all
persons to participate effectively in a free society; and the furtherance of the activities of
the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.97
After all, “Knowledge of basic human rights by the individual is necessary
because, ultimately, human rights are respected and protected - or violated - by
individuals, even if they are acting in some official capacity.”98 To recognize
the significant role of education in protecting and promoting human rights, the
United Nations General Assembly has proclaimed 1995 - 2005 as the United
Nations Decade for Human Rights Education.
The United Nations should make it a goal to impart human rights education
at all levels of society, from children to government leaders. Furthermore, the
United Nations General Assembly should consult on ways to enforce the ob-
jectives of the UDHR. It should be clear that as signatories, national govern-
ments are bound - and should be required - to fulfill their obligations to the
UDHR and the United Nations, or be reprimanded. Only then can the transla-
tion of principle to practice become feasible.
Footnotes
The Shari’a refers to Islamic canon law and contains the totality of Allah’s commandments
relating to every aspect of human activity.
Population of at least 300,000.
Such as collective rights of minority groups which is not addressed in the UDHR.
Tahzib, B. (1995). Freedom of Religion or Belief: Ensuring Effective International Legal Protec-
tion. The Hague, The Netherlands: Kluwerlaw International. p. 15.
Armstrong, K. (1997). Jerusalem: One City, Three Faiths. New York, NY: Ballantine. p. 2.
Levin, L. (1996). Human Rights: Questions and Answers. Paris, France: UNESCO Publications. p.
16.
ibid. p. 1.
Freedom of expression; freedom of faith; freedom from want; and freedom from fear.
ibid. p. 5.
10 Ishay, M. (1997). Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The Human Rights Reader: Major Politi-
cal Essays, Speeches, and Documents from the Bible to the Present. New York, NY: Routledge
Inc. p. 407.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
11 Weinberg, M. (1998). The Human Rights Discourse: A Bahá’í Perspective. The Bahá’í World 1996 -
1997: An International Record. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications. p. 249.
12 ibid.
13 ibid.
14 These three documents make up what is referred to as the International Bill of Rights.
15 Levin. p. 23.
16 ibid.
17 Weinberg. p.251.
18 Preis, A. (1996). Human Rights as Cultural Practice: An Anthropological Critique. Human Rights
Quarterly, vol. 18, pp. 287.
19 ibid.
20 Barnes, K. (1997). Human Rights and Multiculturalism. Unpublished Manuscript of a paper pre-
sented at the “First International Conference on Human Rights” sponsored by the Brazilian Bar
Association, 14-17 September 1997, Brazilia, Brazil, p. 2.
Pollis A., Schwab, P. (1980). Human Rights: A Western Construct with Limited Applicability. In
Pollis, A., Schwab, P.. eds. Human Rights: Cultural and Ideologcial Perspectives. New York, NY:
Praeger Publications.
Barnes. p. 2.
Etzioni, A. (1997). The End of Cross-Cultural Relativism. Alternatives, vol. 22, no. 2; Howard, R.
(1995). Human Rights and the Search for Community. Boulder, CO: Westview Press.
24 Howard. p. 54.
Beis cited in Weinberg. p. 252.
26 Akhavan, P. (1996). The 1993 World Conference on Human Rights. In Bradbury, M. & Bushrui, S.,
eds. Divisive Barbarity or Global Civilization? The Ethical Dimensions of Science, Art, Religion
and Politics . Bethesda, MD: University Press of Maryland. p. 190.
27 Ishay. pp. 482-485.
28 The Báb (lit., ‘Door’ or ‘Gate’) was born Ali Muhammad in Shiraz on October 20, 1819.
29 Bahá’u’lláh (lit., ‘Glory of God’) was born Husayn Ali, in Teheran on November 12, 1817.
30 Qajar King who reigned in Iran between the years 1848-1896
31 The only known exception to this occurred in Nazi Germany when the local administrative
bodies of the Bahá’í community in Germany refused to provide the Nazi regime with names of
Bahá’ís of Jewish and Gypsy origin. Despite this, many Bahá’ís were arrested and perished in the
death camps, the most well-known of whom was Lydia Zamenoff, the daughter of the father of
Esperanto Dr. Zamenoff.
32 These bodies are referred to as the Local Spiritual Assembly, National Spiritual Assembly and
the Universal House of Justice.
33 Bahá’í International Community (1993). The Bahá’í Question: Iran’s Secret Blueprint for the
Destruction of a Religious Community. New York, NY: Bahá’í International Community.
34 Martin, D. (1993). The Case of the Bahá’í Minority in Iran. The Bahá’í World 1992 - 1993: An
International Record. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications. p. 247.
35 Shi’i Muslims are awaiting the appearance of the 12th Imam. The Bab claimed to represent this
figure. This will be furthered discussed in the section on the Ideological Roots of Persecution.
36 Martin. p. 249.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
37 The Qajar Dynasty was a monarchic dynasty which ruled Iran from 1794-1925. The Shahs in this
period included: Aqa Muhammad Shah 1796-1797; Fath Ali Shah 1797-1834; Mohammad Shah
1834-1848; Nasser-al-Din Shah 1848-1896; Muzaffar-id-Din Shah 1896-1907; and Muhammad Ali
Shah 1907-1925.
38 Bahá’í International Community. p. 8.
39 The Chador is a full length piece of cloth worn by women over their head to cover their hair and
body.
40 The Bahá’ís would not hold official government posts and were therefore appointed to hold
positions in different Ministries such as education, culture, etc. There were also a number of
Bahá’ís appointed to high positions within the Iranian military.
41 Interview with Professor James Cockroft of Rudgers University, published in Seven Days, 23
February 1979 and cited in Martin.
42 Non-Muslim monotheists (whose religion precedes Islam), are referred to in the Qur’an as
dhimmis, otherwise known as ‘people of the book.’ They are considered second-class citizens,
and required to pay a special tax (jizya) to the Islamic state in exchange for tolerance, and
exemption from certain duties such as military service.
43 Bahá’í International Community. p. 14.
44 Ostling, R. (1984). Slow Death for Iran’s Bahá’ís: A Pacific Faith Appears to be Targeted for Annihi-
lation. Time Magazine, vol. 123. p. 76.
45 Most of the Bahá’ís executed were given the opportunity to recant their faith and return to
Islam. Their refusal was followed by execution.
46 Martin, D. (1984). The Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran: 1844 - 1984. Ottawa, Canada: Association
for Bahá’í Studies.
47 Bahá’í International Community. pp. 38, 48.
48 This occurred despite the fact that Shari’a does not allow for the execution of female apostates.
See Khadduri, M. (1966). The Islamic Law of Nations: Shaybani’s Siyar. Baltimore, MD: Johns
Hopkins Press. p. 205.
49 Martin, D. The Bahá’í World. p. 261.
50 Khabar-i-Junub, Shiraz, Iran, 22 February 22, 1983 cited in Martin, D. The Bahá’í World. p: 262.
51 Bahá’í International Community. p. 44.
52 Kayhán Newspaper cited in Martin, D. The Bahá’í World. p. 262.
53 Commission on Human Rights (7 March 1990). Resolution 1990/79: on the Situation of Human
Rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran.
54 Bahá’í International Community. p. 36.
55 ibid. p. 38.
56 Press Release by the National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, 16 January
1998.
57 Qur’an 33:40. The exact verse reads: “Muhammad is the father of no man amongst you. He is the
Apostle of God and the Seal of the Prophets.” An analysis of this verse however, in comparison
with other verses of the Qur’an and the sunna, along with historical contextualization suggests
alternative interpretations which show that the Muslim interpretation may not be accurate. For
an in-depth analysis of this issue see: Farhoumand, C. (1989). The Seal of the Prophets: A Bahá’í
Interpretation. Unpublished paper.
58 The sunna represents a compilation of oral histories or hadith, some said to date back to the
time of the Prophet, which provides guidance and further elaboration on the Islamic life as

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
exemplified in the life of the Prophet Muhammad and his closest peers.
59 Martin, D. The Bahá’í World. p. 250.
60 Little, D., Kelsay, J., Sachedina, A. (1988). Human Rights and the Conflict of Cultures. Columbia,
SC: University of South Carolina Press. p. 13.
61 ibid.
62 ibid.
63 ibid. p. 16.
64 D’arcy, E. (1961). Conscience and Its Right to Freedom. London: Sheed & Ward Publications. p.
7.
65 ibid. pp. 7-8.
66 Little, D., Kelsay, J., Sachedina, A. p. 26.
67 ibid.
68 Afshar, H. (1998). Islam and Feminism: An Iranian Case Study. New York, NY: St. Martin’s Press.
p. 2.
69 ibid.
70 ibid. p. 59.
71 ibid. p. 60.
72 ibid.
73 ibid. p. 66.
74 “No compulsion is there in religion” in Qur’an 2:256.
75 See Qur’an 10:99-100.
76 Little, D., Kelsay, J. & Sachedina, A. p. 67.
77 ibid. p. 4.
78 ibid. p. 5.
79 Tabandeh, S. (1970). A Muslim Commentary on the  of Human Rights. London: F.T. Goulding &
Company Limited. p. 70.
80 Little, D., Kelsay, J. & Sachedina, A. p. 6.
81 ibid. p. 76
82 Piscatori, J. (1980). Human Rights in Islamic Political Culture. In Thompson, K., ed. The Moral
Imperative of Human Rights. Washington, DC: University Press of America. p. 145.
83 Tabandeh, S. p. 70.
84 ibid. p. 4.
85 ibid. p. 71.
86 Little, D., Kelsay, J. & Sachedina, A. p. 7.
87 ibid. 72.
88 See Qur’an 3:89.
89 Little, D., Kelsay, J. & Sachedina, A. p. 72.
90 ibid.
91 ibid.
92 Khadduri, M. pp. 195-229.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Cultural Relativism and
the Persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran
93 Little, D., Kelsay, J. & Sachedina, A. Human Rights and the Conflict of Cultures, p. 7.
94 An-Na’im, A. (1990). Toward an Islamic Reformation: Civil Liberties, Human Rights, and Inter-
national Law. Syracuse, NY: Syracuse University Press. p. 49.
95 ibid.
96 United Nations. Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In Ishay.
97 United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (12 December 1996). Report of the United
Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights on the implementation of the Plan of Action for the
United Nations Decade on Human Rights Education. (A/51/506/Add.1).
98 Bahá’í International Community (1997). Human Rights Education. Unpublished paper. p.1.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights:
State Sovereignty as Smokescreen or Necessary
Partner in Securing Human Rights?
BY NAZILA GHANEA-HERCOCK
This paper will argue that the main systemic Bahá’í critique of the current
international human rights system concerns the extent of the centrality of state
sovereignty. The continued primacy of the sovereign state within human rights
can be seen at many levels and in a variety of instances. This includes the role
of states in establishing human rights principles, in maintaining oversight over
the compliance of other states with human rights standards, and in the protec-
tion of human rights in the domestic sphere. It is the latter of these three roles
which may be considered the most problematic from a Bahá’í perspective.
Since the focus of this paper is on the protection of human rights in the light
of infringements within the domestic sphere, it will be the international pro-
tection of human rights by the United Nations in the context of such domestic
abuse which will constitute the main exploration of this paper. The brevity of
this piece will not allow provision of the details of the Bahá’í concept of world
order. Instead the focus will be on the systemic challenges that can be deduced
from the examination of the main difficulties facing the current international
human rights regime. Definitions of sovereignty will not be entered into ei-
ther, and statements about ‘states’ and ‘state sovereignty’ will be highly
generalised due to the shortage of space.
State Sovereignty: Supporting or Eroding Rights?
Highlighting contradictions between traditional concepts of state sovereignty
and human rights is not a new claim, nor uniquely a Bahá’í claim. Many have

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
questioned the statist basis of international law, and pointed out its problematic
position in relation to human rights—which are to secure the respect for, and
the realisation and fulfilment of internationally agreed human rights standards.
In the present human rights regime the sovereign state plays a dual role. It
is both the bastion of rights as well as the abuser of rights. It is the generator of
human rights standards as well as the main source of the erosion of these stan-
dards. It is the watchdog of rights as well as the smokescreen behind which
rights are infringed. It empowers these standards as well as deflating them.
Both strong states, such as the US, as well as weak or collapsed states, such as
Somalia—prove problematic in relation to rights.1 As Eide asserts regarding
the role of the state, “for some it is a dreaded expropriator and violator, for
others a protector and provider.”2
State sovereignty provides the structure within which human rights stan-
dards are currently generated, monitored and accounted for. Ultimate legal
responsibility for the protection of rights rests with sovereign states. Ulti-
mately the buck stops here. Sovereignty provides the necessary hierarchy. The
myth of sovereignty, which considers the state as the sole holder of legitimate
use of force within the domestic sphere, supports this necessary hierarchy.
According to the Positivist position,3 it is right that states alone should decide
on international human rights standards and establish them in human rights law.
It is their prerogative to decide on whether or not they agree with a particular
human rights text, to decide whether or not they will vote for it, to decide
whether they need to protect themselves from future criticism by attaching
reservations or by persistently objecting to it, and to carry the final responsi-
bility for ensuring their respect for it. International law, including human rights
law, is still largely perceived as implying horizontal enforcement, as largely
remaining a law between states. Since there is no higher legal authority above
the state, this conceptual model remains the best overall description of the
current scenario. The advantage of this model is that responsibility, at least in
states reflecting some level of democracy, is assigned on the basis of legiti-
macy stemming from being elected to positions of power. However, this model
also puts forward challenges for the project of securing rights.
Three Levels of Difficulty
The difficulties can be divided into three levels. On the first level, there
has been the difficulty of the present sovereign state structure in relation to
particular rights. On the second, is the question of the efficacy of the political
context in which human rights standards come into being. Finally, there is the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
question of the barriers surrounding what can be done in the light of the state
which abuses people within its own territory.
Feminist critiques, in particular, have emphasised how the rigidity of the
sovereign state system has sharpened the delegation of some human rights abuses
as ‘private’ and others as ‘public’. This has largely made human rights blind to
much of the atrocities going on against women. Women’s rights may have been
the most widespread of the rights that have been neglected. However, the
difficulties of dealing with migration, self-determination, trafficking, minority
rights and the rights of indigenous peoples are a few of the range of issues
which also bring the issue of state sovereignty to the fore. Economic, Social and
Cultural rights as a whole have also proven problematic, especially in relation
to the difficulty of dealing with state responsibility when positive costs may be
implicated.4 The sovereign state system has proven most problematic in rela-
tion to the securing of rights which require such positive enablement and sup-
port, not just negative protection from abuse by the state. The recognition of
any level of collective or group rights also has continued to prove deeply
controversial, and many states feel too threatened to recognise particular groups
within their territory. Many states deny the existence of any ‘minorities’ within
their territory, and continue the nationalist myth of the uniformity of their citi-
zenship. This has led to major denials of rights across the world, to the assign-
ment of significant populations within states as ‘unrecognised’ juridical
non-persons.
On the second level, is the question of the efficacy of the political milieu
and process in which human rights standards come into being. As has been sug-
gested above, some categories of rights and of rights recipients have been
sidelined in this process. Some rights are left behind as the political will
cannot be mustered to bring them to fruition as a legally binding Covenant, just
one example being that of the elimination of religious discrimination.5 As well
as the prerogative of states in relation to the shaping and adoption of human
rights treaties, states also decide which human rights issues should be raised in
their interventions in the UN Commission on Human Rights,6 which should be
put forward for consideration as situations revealing a consistent pattern of
gross and reliably-attested violations of human rights and fundamental free-
doms under the public 1235 or confidential 1503 procedure, and which of the
human rights resolutions to vote for at the Commission or the General Assem-
bly. Voting patterns on human rights resolutions are just as carefully calculated
and choreographed as those on other multilateral issues such as trade or arms
control. It is not surprising, therefore, to note that accusations of partisanship,
politicisation, double standards and selectivity are rife.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
Finally, there is the question of the barriers surrounding what can be done
in the light of the state which abuses people within its own territory. It is here
that the limitations of the present sovereign state system are most acute. The
tension between the state on the one hand, and the role of the international
community on the other, was enshrined within the UN Charter itself. The oft-
quoted Article 2(7) of the UN Charter states:
“Nothing contained in this present Charter shall authorize the United Nations to intervene
in matters which are essentially within the domestic jurisdiction of any state.”
In cases of the abuse of human rights by the state of its population, there-
fore, what can the United Nations do? Clearly, any form of direct intervention
in the protection of human rights is severely limited by the above clause, and
this taboo has been established further in state practice since the Charter. Mecha-
nisms that have evolved, however, include: the possibility of inter-state com-
plaints regarding human rights abuse in another sovereign state,7 the possibility
of raising the issue as a situation of consistent and gross abuse of human rights
in the confidential 1503 or public 1235 procedure, the possibility of requesting
relevant UN Special Rapporteurs to attempt to visit the country and report on
their findings, raising the issue in relevant treaty bodies and recommending
means by which the situation can be resolved, bilateral pressure, the imposi-
tion of sanctions and statements by UN bodies. These mechanisms largely de-
pend on positive persuasion, gradual socialisation8 and finger-pointing in order
to gradually change the human rights abuses of a recalcitrant state. The sanction
of exclusion from the UN has not really been explored by the United Nations,
largely due to the dramatically negative consequences of this witnessed during
the League of Nations era. The overall assessment has been that keeping states
within the fold of the UN is preferable to exclusion, and that this allows the
remaining possibility of gradual socialisation toward acceptance of interna-
tional norms. Despite these very weak means of influence, some states remain
adamant that even these mechanisms of very indirect ‘intervention’ regarding
human rights abuses in their national contexts, are unacceptable, intrusive, and
infringe their sovereignty. Attempts to dilute or eliminate the remaining mecha-
nisms of indirect ‘intervention’ in the human rights situation at the domestic
level is often couched in very inoffensive, even positive-sounding, language.
Such attempts have made appeal to concepts such as ‘cultural diversity’ (read:
cultural relativity) and ‘dialogue among civilisations’ (read: absolute national
sovereignty) to buttress their positions. This more recent spectrum of virulent
‘defences’ for sovereignty in the face of human rights abuse are described by
Bayefsky to often come in under the heading of ‘cultural sovereignty:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
It is the claim that cultural particularities modify the commitment to the universality of
human rights norms. International efforts to protect human rights are said to be limited by
the state’s sovereign or superior authority to define the cultural needs of its citizens and the
cultural parameters of their lives. There is no singular understanding of human rights; the
definitions are culturally dependent.9
Discussions on this issue were heated throughout the UN world confer-
ences of the 1990s, and into the present century. They included tensions on this
issue at the 1993 Vienna World Conference on Human Rights, the 1994 Cairo
Population and Development Conference, at the 1995 Copenhagen Social Sum-
mit, the 1995 Beijing Women’s Conference, as well as the follow-up confer-
ences held with regard to these world conferences.
It can therefore be seen that whereas the sovereign state system is regarded
as being indispensable to the present operation of human rights, it is also con-
sidered a prime barrier to the wider success of the human rights project. Atten-
tion will now shift to the Bahá’í reading of the place of the state in the context
of securing rights.
Bahá’í Perspectives on Sovereignty and Human Rights
The main assessment of Bahá’í perspectives on these issues will be de-
duced from statements asserted by the Bahá’í International Community—the
Non-Governmental Organisation representation of Bahá’ís at the international
level and accredited at the United Nations. However, we will start with two
statements from Bahá’u’lláh, the first from the Tablet addressed to Queen
Victoria:
We have also heard that thou hast entrusted the reins of counsel into the hands of the
representatives of the people. Thou, indeed, hast done well, for thereby the foundations
of the edifice of thine affairs will be strengthened, and the hearts of all that are beneath thy
shadow, whether high or low, will be tranquillized. It behoveth them, however, to be
trustworthy among His servants, and to regard themselves as the representatives of all that
dwell on earth.10
In referring to the internal structure of the state, and the importance of rep-
resentation, Bahá’u’lláh here addresses ‘internal sovereignty’ and the notion of
accountability of government and peoples access to decision making. In a sec-
ond statement, this time addressing the collectivity of the kings and rulers
addressed by Bahá’u’lláh, He states:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
Be united, O Kings of the earth, for thereby will the tempest of discord be stilled amongst
you, and your people find rest, if ye be of them that comprehend. Should any one among
you take up arms against another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest
justice.11
The reference here is to ‘external sovereignty’ and collective security. The
statement addresses the necessary limits on external sovereignty in the ex-
treme case of the use of arms. The statement relates to the use of force by one
state against another, but may be considered to more generally implicate the
necessity of oversight over, and constraints upon, the sovereign state. If this is
the case, the wider goal of constraining the illegal use of force and abuse of
power by the state, also relates to the question of human rights abuses by a state
of its population. This implies the need for states themselves to operate within
acceptable channels that respect human rights, and if not that direct intervention
agreed by law be available as a means of attempting to remedy the situation.12
This wider reading is supported by the proposals put forward by the Bahá’í
International Community. These two statements by Bahá’u’lláh therefore touch
on both internal and external sovereignty, and suggest that the Bahá’í view of
world order poses a challenge both to internal as well as external sovereignty.
Shoghi Effendi comments very starkly on the future of the nation-building
process when he states:
Unification of the whole of mankind is the hall-mark of the stage which human society is
now approaching.… World unity is the goal towards which a harassed humanity is striving.
Nation-building has come to an end. The anarchy inherent in state sovereignty is moving
towards a climax. A world, growing to maturity, must abandon this fetish, recognize the
oneness and wholeness of human relationships, and establish once for all the machinery
that can best incarnate this fundamental principle of its life.13
Repeated statements by the Bahá’í International Community echo the rel-
evance of this claim to the goal of securing human rights. In such statements, the
Bahá’í International Community repeatedly emphasises that the concept of hu-
man rights should be anchored in the principle of the oneness of humanity. It is
argued that this grounding in the ‘oneness of humanity’ goes beyond a negative
perspective of human rights and requires a positive respect for each person to
be enabled to realise their potential. The Bahá’í International Community takes
this idea of the oneness of humanity14 as bringing forward new definitions of
human rights, going so far as to claim that this leads to the conclusion that the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
overriding purpose of international order is to establish and preserve the
rights of the individual.
The Bahá’í International Community is critical of the “undue weight”15 given
to state sovereignty, one that results in “a curious mix of anarchy and conserva-
tism.”16 Overall, ‘unfettered national sovereignty’ is recognised as a major ob-
stacle to securing human rights of all peoples. It is suggested that the dependency
of the enjoyment of rights on states needs to be minimised in the light of a new
mind-set which recognises that, “what happens to one member of the human
family happens to us all.”17 If supported internationally, the mechanisms for
both monitoring and enforcing human rights standards can be made more effec-
tive in the light of this new priority.
Assuming that it is widely accepted that, “The national state has reached the
limits of its development as an independent, self-directed social body,” 18 and
that it is accepted that, “Conceived of as an end in itself, the national state has
come to be a denial of the oneness of mankind, the source of general disrup-
tion opposed to the true interests of its people”;19 then what is to follow? The
Bahá’í International Community recognises that human rights does require sov-
ereignty to support and guarantee it. It is argued that, “a right is only valid and
effective when upheld by an independent sovereignty,”20 and also that the na-
tion state system has lost ‘real sovereignty’. In its stead, it is proposed that, “To
reevaluate the elementary rights of the past, and establish essential new rights
in keeping with our own age, a world sovereignty is required.”21 So it is not just
minor adjustments to the operation of the present sovereign state system that is
being proposed in order to ensure a more effective means of securing rights,
but the emergence of another level of sovereignty altogether.
But will moving the challenge to a higher level better defend human rights?
Even at this higher level of proposed ‘world sovereignty’ the principle of
avoiding excessive centralisation is emphasised. The principle remains that:
International institutions should be given the authority to act only on issues of international
concern where states cannot act on their own or to intervene for the preservation of the
rights of peoples and member states. All other matters should be relegated to national
and local institutions.22
‘Abdu’l-Bahá himself has emphasised this principle:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
It is very evident that in the future there shall be no centralization in the countries of the
world, be they constitutional in government, republican or democratic in form.… To cast
aside centralization which promotes despotism is the exigency of the time. This will be
productive of international peace.23
The idea is, therefore, to broaden existing loyalties to allow the emer-
gence of a non-centralised world sovereignty. Only issues that cannot be dealt
with at other levels, or on which there is international concern, are to be as-
signed to this level. The balance of power structure that is to emerge needs to
be equally cognisant of both the, “evils of excessive centralization,”24 and that of
diversity and facilitating a, “wider loyalty, a larger aspiration.”25
This, “more intricate political landscape”26 which is put forward, also re-
quires the development of civil society from the grassroots. The Bahá’í Inter-
national Community proposals to date have already included suggestions about
allowing NGOs to attend open session of the UN Security Council as observ-
ers, of shifting the NGO consultative status structure to that of the UN as a
whole rather than just to ECOSOC, to establish a Trust Fund to support the
access and work of NGOs, and to enhance the logistical support given to NGOs
at the UN.27
And, finally, it is not at the level of the empowerment of civil society actors
at which this new project is to end. It is proposed that human rights education
itself should be promoted around the world, in order that people themselves
may become excited about human rights, feel empowered to stand up for the
rights of others as well as themselves, where they should sense collective
responsibility towards human rights, and themselves work towards the
realisation of these rights. Whereas in the present world structure the work of
the human rights defender can often be risky and fatal, with the re-orientation
of the concept of sovereignty and its goal, and the machinery which can be more
intrusive in the defence of rights, the defence of human rights from the grassroots
fits effectively into the larger picture. It is proposed by the Bahá’í International
Community that governments alone cannot implement human rights, and that
what is required is a sense of collective responsibility—that each person take
responsibility and action whenever and wherever human rights violations oc-
cur, and be active in the promotion of the rights of others. This would create a
co-operative environment for the prospering of rights,28 and could eventually
complete the circle in forging this world in which, “a violation of the rights of
one would be felt as a violation of the rights of all.” 29
Human rights education would aim to kindle in individuals an awareness of,
and a sensitivity and devotion30 to, human rights. The aim would be the transfor-
mation of the attitudes and behaviour of individuals, towards creating the daily

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
reality of a culture of respect for rights at the local and national level.31 Teach-
ing people about their own rights would only be one part of this goal. What is
of significance in this human rights education project is that it also aims to
develop respect for the rights of humanity in general.32 This suggestion of wider
responsibility for ensuring rights has, as its final implication, profound impact
on the framework in which human rights are currently proposed, agreed, pur-
sued and monitored.
It might seem to some that the possible dangers of changing the world struc-
ture so dramatically from a tried and tested system to which we have become
accustomed to over centuries seems far too risky. Those who prosper within
this system, and those who have not been touched directly by violations of
human rights, may even be diametrically opposed to such propositions. How-
ever, the Bahá’í International Community reminds us of the premise on which
all social structures supposedly rest, that, “the governance of human affairs”
should be, “conducted along lines that serve humanity’s real needs.33 Put more
sharply, Shoghi Effendi has asserted:
If long-cherished ideals and time-honoured institutions, if certain social assumptions and
religious formulae have ceased to promote the welfare of the generality of mankind, if
they no longer minister to the needs of a continually evolving humanity, let them be swept
away and relegated to the limbo of obsolescent and forgotten doctrines. Why should
these, in a world subject to the immutable law of change and decay, be exempt from the
deterioration that must needs overtake every human institution? For legal standards, po-
litical and economic theories are solely designed to safeguard the interests of humanity as
a whole, and not humanity to be crucified for the preservation of the integrity of any
particular law or doctrine.34
Conclusion
In conclusion, it can be seen that the Bahá’í position on human rights greatly
implicates sovereignty. Of course the positioning of state sovereignty either as
a smokescreen or a necessary partner in securing rights sharply posits one
against the other, whereas the situation is much more intertwined and complex.
The aim is to lessen the former, whilst not making the latter role of state sov-
ereignty impossible—and this would seem to be the position that the Bahá’í
view supports in its proposals for a new world order. It would also seem that
the current international human rights machinery is very gradually edging the
traditional concept of sovereignty towards some of the Bahá’í proposals for
world order—in accepting the naming and shaming of states in cases of human

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
rights abuses, in expecting regular state reporting in UN treaty bodies and
regional mechanisms, and increasing the access and role of NGOs to the human
rights machinery.
Whereas the Bahá’í International Community points towards a Bahá’í vision
of where we should be heading, many of the finer questions remain to be
worked out. These include the long-term challenges of how to recognise the
role of non-state actors in the abuse of human rights 35 without giving undue
recognition to bodies which are not voted to power and are therefore less
accountable; the question of how to increase the intricacy of the international
architecture supporting rights without confusing ultimate legal responsibilities
for generating and guaranteeing rights; and the problem of how to make deci-
sion-making regarding human rights standards and protection more accountable
without weakening the experience and machinery already created, or eliminat-
ing the painful gains already made in the development of rights. Rights should
come home closer to people, but exactly how this will develop, and the pre-
cise machinery that will support it, is yet to evolve.
Footnotes
Ironically, these 2 states—Somalia and the US—compose the only 2 states that have not signed
up to the international Covenant on the Rights of the Child.
Eide, A. National Sovereignty and International Efforts to Realize Human Rights. Chapter in Eide, A.,
Hagtvet, B., eds. (1982). Human Rights in Perspective, A Global Assessment. Oxford: Blackwell.
p. 7.
The Positivist position holds that states can’t be bound by laws unless they explicitly partake in
deciding on it. States make the law, and they consider such law to be in their own long-term
interests. This can be contrasted with the Natural law position, which is less prominent these
days, and which holds that the law is found, not made.
This has fuelled the more theoretical discussions about whether such rights can be justiciable or
not. Economic, Social and Cultural rights do not always, or do not necessarily, imply financial
costs for the state. In many cases this merely require the state to provide the environment
within which people themselves may be enabled to secure their rights to, for example, food and
shelter.
This remains as a declaration, in the form of the 1981 Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms
of Intolerance and Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief.
For a discussion of the UN Commission on Human Rights, and the 1235 and 1503 procedures
see: Ghanea-Hercock, N. (September 1997). The 53rd Session of the Commission on Human Rights.
Netherlands Quarterly of Human Rights, vol. 15, no. 3; and Ghanea-Hercock, N. (September
1998). The 54th Session of the Commission on Human Rights. Netherlands Quarterly of Human
Rights. vol. 16, no. 3.
This has never been used, to date, at the international level. A similar procedure at the European
level has been utilised on a number of occasions.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
For a very thorough examination of how human rights norms become socialised into domestic
practice see: Risse, T., Ropp, S. C., Sikkink, K., eds. (1999). The Power of Human Rights, Interna-
tional Norms and Domestic Change. Cambridge, United Kingdom: Cambridge University Press.
Bayefsky, A. F. The UN and the International Protection of Human Rights. In Galligan, B., Sampford,
C., eds. (1997). Rethinking Human Rights. Sydney: The Federation Press. p. 75.
10 Bahá’u’lláh (1978). The Proclamation of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 34.
11 ibid. p. 13.
12 The serious complexities of how the limits are to be agreed, what ‘direct measures’ of direct
intervention can be taken and how they are to be agreed, are very legitimate concerns, but they
cannot be explored here.
13 Shoghi Effendi (1991). The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 202.
14 In fact, the principle of the oneness of humanity also goes far beyond implicating human rights
and is clearly of much broader consequence. “Its message is applicable not only to the individual,
but concerns itself primarily with the nature of those essential relationships that must bind all
the states and nations as members of one human family … It implies an organic change in the
structure of present-day society, a change such as the world has not yet experienced. … It
represents the consummation of human evolution … ” These excerpts merely touch upon the
exploration of this theme by Shoghi Effendi in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Shoghi Effendi
suggests in The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, that this principle is in fact at the core of the Bahá’í
contribution to a new world order. See: ibid.
15 Bahá’í International Community (October 1995). Turning Point For All Nations. A Statement of
the Bahá’í International Community on the Occasion of the 50th Anniversary of the United
Nations, New York, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #95-1001).
16 ibid.
17 Bahá’í International Community  (14-25 June 1993). Obstacles to Progress in Human Rights. State-
ment to the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights, Agenda Item 9: General
debate on the progress made in the field of human rights since the adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and on the identification of obstacles to further progress in this
area, and ways in which they can be overcome, Vienna, Austria. (Bahá’í International Community
Document #93-0609).
18 Bahá’í International Community (Feburary 1947). A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and
Rights. Presented to the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
Lake Success, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #47-0200).
19 ibid.
20 ibid.
ibid.
Bahá’í International Community. Turning Point For All Nations.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1982). The Promulgation of Universal Peace . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust.
p. 167.
24 Bahá’í International Community (1995). Rights of Minorities. Submitted to the 51st session of the
United Nations Commission on Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Com-
munity Document #95-0131).
ibid.
26 Bahá’í International Community. Turning Point For All Nations.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
A Bahá’í Critique of Human Rights
27 Bahá’í International Community (20-24 June 1994). Arrangements for Consultations with Non-Gov-
ernmental Organizations. Statement of the first session of United Nations Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC) Open-Ended Working Group on the Review of Arrangements for Consul-
tations with Non-Governmental Organizations, Agenda item 3: General review of arrangements
for consultations with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs), New York, NY. (Bahá’í Inter-
national Community Document #94-0621).
28 Bahá’í International Community (3 December 1993). Right & Responsibility to Promote Human
Rights. Written comment on the Draft Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individu-
als, Groups and Organs of Society to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human
Rights and Fundamental Freedoms submitted to the 50th session of the Commission on Hu-
man Rights in response to an invitation from Ibrahima Fall, Assistant Secretary-General for
Human Rights, issued in accordance with resolution 1993/92 of the Commission on Human
Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #93-1203).
29 Bahá’í International Community (15 February 1989). Creating a Universal Culture of Human
Rights. Statement to the forty-fifth session of the United Nations Commission on Human
Rights, Agenda item 11: Further promotion and encouragement of human rights and fundamental
freedoms, including the question of the programme and methods of work of the Commission;
alternative approaches and ways and means within the United Nations system for improving the
effective enjoyment of human rights and fundamental freedoms; national institutions for the
promotion and protection of human rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Commu-
nity Document #89-0215).
30 ibid.
31 Bahá’í International Community (March 1996). The United Nations Decade for Human Rights
Education. Written statement on the United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education,
submitted to the UN Commission on Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International
Community Document #96-0315).
32 Bahá’í International Community. Obstacles to Progress in Human Rights.
33 Bahá’í International Community (3 March 1995). The Prosperity of Humankind. A statement
prepared by the Bahá’í International Community Office of Public Information, Haifa, first dis-
tributed at the United Nations World Summit on Social Development, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(Bahá’í International Community Document #95-0303)
34 Shoghi Effendi. p. 42.
35 Non-state actors that can play a major role in both abusing and supporting rights include interna-
tional financial institutions, businesses, terrorist organisations and private security organisations.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
Rights to Human and Social Development:
a Survey of the Activities of the
Bahá’í International Community
BY GRAHAM HASSALL
Throughout the second half of the Twentieth century the contribution of the
Bahá’í International Community (BIC)1 to dialogue concerning human and social
development was principled, systematic, and sustained. It was principled in
that it drew on the Bahá’í Writings for its core conceptions. It was systematic in
that it subjected these conceptions to logical analysis, in addition to reporting
on the practice of Bahá’í communities worldwide. Finally, it was sustained,
inasmuch as the BIC contributed to, and encouraged, the major initiatives in the
development dialogue, commencing with the drafting of the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights in 1948,2 to the Millennium Forum in 2000, the largest
gathering of NGOs to ever assemble for consultation and dialogue on the mis-
sion of the United Nations, and which the BIC had the honour of co-chairing. In
these five decades the BIC has presented several hundred oral and written
statements to meetings of the UN, and to other significant NGO meetings, in
addition to supporting the processes of dialogue through coordination and fa-
cilitation roles.3
In this essay I suggest that the contributions of the BIC to the articulation of
rights to human and social development and have centered on six main themes:
(1) the need for a global complex systems approach to contemporary problem
solving; (2) the fundamental principle of the oneness of humanity;(3) the essen-
tial role of religious belief; (4) the primacy of education and training over the
restraints offered by laws; (5) the need for a values-based approach that begins
at the level of individual responsibility, and (6) Observations on the effective-
ness of the United Nations Organization.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
Before examining these themes in detail, it is useful to summarize the emer-
gence of human rights in the twentieth century.
The articulation of the rights of individuals, and the legal means for their
protection, emerged partly as a response to the large-scale brutality of the
twentieth century. Other factors included a decline in traditional guarantees of
protection afforded to individuals, evident in increased incidences of human
rights abuses by both state and non state actors. Furthermore, the dramatic changes
in world conditions in the twentieth century, principally the shift to globalism
and the accommodations this requires on the part of individual cultures and
nations, have required the reconceptualisation of traditional practices so as to
ensure agreement on common global or universal standards while allowing for
individual difference and diversity. The rapid changes of the last two centu-
ries, moreover, have necessitated a reconceptualization of the origin of rights,
and the purposes for which rights are articulated. Since the late eighteenth
century rights have been viewed as claims by individual citizens against the
state, but this notion is increasingly giving way to the idea that rights express
normative conditions of mutuality that underlie relations between states and
the citizens who constitute ‘civil society’.
The basic elements of the global human rights framework are readily iden-
tified. In 1946 an 18-member United Nations Commission on Human Rights
commenced drafting a “declaration” of rights it considered to pertain to each
individual, irrespective of their race, nationality, gender, or creed. This be-
came the Universal Declaration of Human Rights,4 adopted by the United Na-
tions General Assembly on 10 December 1948. The UDHR proposes that Human
Rights are universal and indivisible. This means that the different aspects of
human rights - civil, cultural, economic, political and social - must be consid-
ered together, rather than as separable entities.
Although merely a ‘declaration’ of desirable standards pertaining to human
rights, the UDHR has had considerable impact on the ways in which states and
citizens understand notions of individual rights and obligations. It has inspired
more than 60 human rights instruments that now constitute an international stan-
dard of human rights. This second process, of transforming desirable ‘norms’
into international law, commenced with the concluding in 1966 of two “cov-
enants” concerning human rights: the International Covenant on Civil and Politi-
cal Rights (ICCPR)5 and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights (ICESCR).6
The rights contained in the UDHR and the two covenants (which to-
gether have become known as the “International Bill of Rights”) were further
elaborated in such legal documents as the International Convention on the Elimi-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
nation of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, which declares dissemination of
ideas based on racial superiority or hatred as being punishable by law; the
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women,
covering measures to be taken for eliminating discrimination against women in
political and public life, education, employment, health, marriage and family;
and the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which lays down guarantees in
terms of the child’s human rights. The more significant human rights treaties and
declarations now include:
-
Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide
(1948)
-
Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees (1961)
-
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination
(1965)
-
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women (1979)
-
Convention against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treat-
ment or Punishment (1984)
-
Convention on the Rights of the Child (1989)
-
Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and
Members of Their Families (1990).7
Although the nation-states are not yet welded into a united global body
politic, they nonetheless feel impelled toward a common set of standards, and
know intuitively that human rights development constitutes a noble aim. These
treaties are now important instruments of international law. In voluntarily ac-
ceding to them, countries agree to bind themselves to the standards they con-
tain, and undertake to report at set intervals to the United Nations’ Committee
on Human Rights. Within the UN system, six committees have been estab-
lished to monitor compliance of States parties to specific treaties:
-
The Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination
-
The Human Rights Committee
-
The Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights
-
The Committee against Torture
-
The Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
-
The Committee on the Rights of the Child
Together with the elaboration of these international laws and the interna-
tional institutions to administer them, progress in their implementation has
been considered at a series of world meetings: on the Environment (Stockholm,
1972 and Rio De Janiero, 1992), Human Rights (Vienna, 1993), Population and
Development (Cairo, 1994), Women (Mexico 1975, Copenhagen 1980, and
Beijing, 1995), and Social Development (Copenhagen, 1995). This latter confer-
ence focused on progress with the implementation of policies concerning ‘hu-
man development, and ‘social development’, which have been at the focus of
the United Nations Development Program.8
The UNDP’s Human Development Report for 1999 provides a seven-item agenda
to secure human development in the era of globalisation:
1. Strengthen policies and actions for human development, and adapt them
to the new realities of the global economy;
2. Reduce the threats of financial volatility – of the boom and bust economy
– and all their human costs;
3. Take stronger global action to tackle global threats to human security;
4. Enhance public action to develop technologies for human development
and the eradication of poverty;
5. Reverse the marginalisation of poor, small countries;
6. Remedy the imbalances in the structures of global governance with new
efforts to create a more inclusive system;
7. Build a more coherent and more democratic architecture for global gov-
ernance in the 21st century.9
The Need for a Global Complex Systems Approach to Contemporary Prob-
lem Solving
One of the clearest expositions of the idea of complexity within statements
of the BIC is found in a 1992 statement to a Committee of the South Pacific
Commission:
“The earth is but one country,” Bahá’u’lláh asserted, “and mankind its citizens.” As the
magnitude, complexity and urgency of environmental problems have gradually forced
themselves on public attention, the logic of this prescription has become daily more

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
apparent. The available international legislative machinery and processes are proving in-
adequate, primarily because they are based on laws governing nation-states. Moreover,
the process for creating environmental legislation, which addresses only one problem at a
time, is fragmented and unsystematic. No one body is responsible for drafting interna-
tional environmental legislation. Nor have the nations of the world agreed on a set of
principles upon which such legislation can be based. Furthermore, the countries signing the
various legislative instruments are rarely identical. Thus, it is almost impossible to harmo-
nize or combine agreements. Many countries with limited numbers of diplomats and
experts cannot cope with the time-consuming and expensive procedures currently in
place, particularly as the number of negotiations is increasing to respond to pressing global
environmental problems. The present ad hoc process can only become more unmanage-
able. Numerous proposals have been offered to provide global mechanisms to create and
support a sustainable pattern of development. Some experts advise strengthening the
existing UN system by upgrading the mandates of agencies such as the UN Environment
Programme (UNEP), reconfiguring the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), or using
the Trusteeship Council to administer certain global resources. Others suggest creating
new bodies such as an environmental security council, a World Court of environmental
justice, or an international environmental negotiating body to prepare, adopt and revise
international legislation on issues requiring global action.
However well motivated and helpful such proposals are, it is apparent to the Bahá’í Inter-
national Community that the establishment of a sustainable pattern of development is a
complex task with widespread ramifications. It will clearly require a new level of commit-
ment to solving major problems not exclusively associated with the environment. These
problems include militarization, the inordinate disparity of wealth between and within
nations, racism, lack of access to education, unrestrained nationalism, and the lack of
equality between women and men. Rather than a piecemeal approach conceived in
response to the needs of the nation-states, it seems clearly preferable to adopt an um-
brella agreement under which specific international codes could be promulgated. Long-
term solutions will require a new and comprehensive vision of a global society, supported
by a new system of values. Acceptance of the oneness of humanity is the first fundamental
prerequisite for this reorganization and administration of the world as one country, the
home of humankind.10
This passage is quoted at length to illustrate the ‘complex relations’ that the
BIC sees between specific problems of development, such as those related to
the environment, and the system as a whole. This theme has been reiterated in
numerous BIC statements. The idea of complexity in problem-solving is re-
lated to the indivisibility of economic, civil, social, cultural and political rights:
Without economic rights, the exercise of civil or social rights is severely attenuated. With-
out cultural rights, an individual or community will have the greatest difficulty in exercising
political or economic rights to a degree that meets the essential requirements of their
respective situations. 11

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
Bahá’í proposals before UN agencies have urged a “searching re-examina-
tion” of prevailing beliefs about the nature and purpose of the development
process and the roles of its various protagonists. They relate development to
such processes as gender equality, the extension of consultative processes, a
new work ethnic, and access to the generation and application of knowledge.12
The question of poverty alleviation, and alleviation of gross disparities be-
tween rich and poor is linked directly to consciousness of the oneness of hu-
manity:
A new economic order can be founded only on an unshakable conviction of the oneness of
mankind. Discussions aimed at solving problems related to extreme poverty based on the
premise that we are one human family rapidly expand beyond the current vocabulary of
economics. They demand a wider context, one which anticipates the emergence of a
global system of relationships resting on the principles of equity and justice.13
Concerning attempts to bridge the disparities between rich and poor, for
instance, the BIC referred in a 1994 statement to the UN Sub-Commission on
the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities to the Bahá’í
view of income distribution,
“…which allows for differences but would eliminate both extreme wealth and extreme
poverty. The accumulation of excessive fortunes by a small number of individuals while
the masses are in need is, according to Bahá’í teachings, an intolerable injustice. Modera-
tion should, therefore, be established by means of laws and regulations that would limit
personal wealth and provide everyone with access to the means for living a dignified life.”14
Each of these statements points to a preference for examining the world-
system as a whole, rather than seeing the solution to development and rights
issues as a series of linear responses to individual challenges.
The Prosperity of Humankind
The need to see development as a set of complex relations was further
explored in a document entitled The Prosperity of Humankind prepared by the
Bahá’í International Community for distribution at the 1995 United Nations Sum-
mit on Social Development.15 It consists of seven sections, each suggesting new
approaches to defining a strategy for global development. These sections con-
sider conceptions of “development,” peace, the concept of “the oneness of hu-
mankind,” justice, human rights, education, science and technology, science and

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
religion, history, human nature, economics, environment, power, authority, struc-
tures of government and law. The Prosperity of Humankind suggests that pros-
perity has both physical and spiritual dimensions. Development is widely
defined materially, but this has proven inadequate. The incentives of existing
systems - eg economic systems, aid systems, have not moved the masses (ie,
despite so much attention to “economic development,” the masses continue to
live in poverty).
Reconceptualizing ‘Governance’
Prosperity suggests that to think in terms of dichotomies such as “government
v. the people,” “science v. religion,” individual rights v. group rights” - is to
miss their essential interrelatedness (government & people, science & religion,
individual & group rights, etc). This new, inclusive paradigm considers “wholes”
or “connectivities,” rather than “oppositions” (there can still be tensions within
interrelations, but that is another subject). So-called commitment to both “de-
mocracy” and “economic development” presents a paradox: if so much power is
now in the hands of “the people,” why is it that they have not been able to
change their material conditions? Partly, this shows flaws in the “roles” played
by the “protagonists”: governments have viewed the masses as recipients of aid
and of development programs; future models of democracy will transfer pow-
ers of decision-making to the grass-roots.
The promotion of human rights thus requires “fundamental redefinition
of human relationships” - and movement in this direction has “barely begun.”
Elements in the redefinition include:
-
consultation (requiring standards far beyond current practices of nego-
tiation and compromise, and “culture of protest” - associated with debate,
propaganda, the adversarial method, and paradigms of partisanship).
-
far greater access to knowledge, and to the opportunity to “apply it to the
shaping of human affairs.”
Democracy has become associated with partisanship, with cynicism, apathy
and corruption. It has to be raised above these results of the “political theatre”
produced by nominations, candidature, electioneering and solicitation. Both
governments and groups of individuals have been galvanised by visions of the
possibility of world order. The efforts of both groups are to be supported.
Reassessment of structures and processes of government will include:
-
redefinition of the terms “power” and “authority”
-
Formulation of laws that are “universal in both character and authority.”

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
-
reformulation of consultative practices, which includes recognition of
the interrelationship between justice, consultation, and the attainment of
social and economic development.
-
transformation of a sometimes “punitive” conception of justice to one
that links justice to a) the inextricable link between the progress of the
individual and the progress of society; b) the ability to consult dispas-
sionately on options when making policy decisions
-
ensuring that “technological break-throughs” and “limited resources” are
not reserved for a privileged minority
-
continued development of human rights law, protecting civil and politi-
cal rights, as well as social and economic rights (without placing them in
a dichotomous relationship).
Power has in the past been identified as an attribute of an individual or
group, and seen as an instrument of domination, acquisition, etc. But this tradi-
tional sense of power is useless to the “needs of humanity’s future.” The correct
approach to the use of power, particularly by leaders, is set out in section VI.
Prosperity suggests that traditional religions have continued paternalistic at-
titudes toward “the masses,” and have not encouraged their maturation - ie, their
involvement in making the decisions that have the most impact on their lives.
The reasons for which modern thinkers have rejected religion are to some
extent understandable, but it is necessary to recognise the fruits of religion,
not only its past abuses. Religion has cultivated the moral qualities that the
progress of civilisation has relied on - moral character, sense of duty, etc.
The Problem of Knowledge Production, Ownership, and Dissemination
Prosperity urges that attention be paid to the philosophy of knowledge. Sci-
ence and religion can be conceived of as knowledge systems. These are inter-
related through history, and have been used to organise experience, interpret
surroundings, explore human powers, and discipline both intellectual and moral
life. Society has to think in terms of process, rather than structure alone. Cor-
rect processes will create appropriate structures. Access to knowledge of sci-
ence and technology must be more evenly spread across the globe. The document
suggests that a strong link exists between knowledge production and morality.
When people can distinguish between “fact” and “conjecture,” they will be able
to contribute to human progress. An expansion of knowledge extends human
abilities, raises the level of human capacity, and when done in the right way
will contribute to achieving prosperity

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
The Fundamental Principle of the Oneness of Humanity
The BIC urged the first meeting of the committee making preparations for
the World Summit for Social Development to bring ‘fresh thinking’ and a ‘uni-
fied spirit’ to planning for the meeting, and suggested in particular adoption of
the principle of the ‘oneness of humanity’ as the “essential standard for order-
ing humankind’s collective life on the planet”:
To move beyond parochialism and particularism will necessitate bold initiatives and un-
precedented courage on the part of the Preparatory Committee (PREPCOM). The re-
sponsibility to foster the well-being of all members of a society - the basic tenet of
modern social welfare—must now be expanded to include all the peoples of the earth.
Only by embracing the principle of the oneness of humanity can the PREPCOM ensure
that deliberations throughout the preparatory process will center on the well-being of the
entire human family, there by extending the concept of social welfare beyond national
boundaries to the whole world. We, therefore, urge the PREPCOM to make the principle
of the oneness of humanity the “central unifying theme of the Summit,” to explore its
ramifications for the peoples and nations of the earth, and to translate it into workable
programs and practical commitments.16
“Consciousness” of the oneness of humanity refers to the realisation of this
condition by the collectivity of “human consciousness” which is itself “an infi-
nite diversity of individual minds and motivations.” Consciousness of the one-
ness of humanity must be taught in educational systems, and must be propagated
through the mass media. Fruits of the attainment of a Consciousness of the one-
ness of humanity will include:
-
protection of peoples from the “age-old demons” of ethnic and religious
strife.
-
shift to processes of collaboration and conciliation
-
desire to base decisions on just principles
-
development of laws that are “universal in both character and authority.”
-
the more even spread of access to knowledge of science and technology
across the globe.
The extent of international migration and the impact of international eco-
nomic events on local and national economies reinforce the reality that the
world has become one system.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
The Emancipation of Women and the Achievement
of Full Equality Between the Sexes.
A related principle concerns the equality of the sexes. In June 1994 the BIC
co-authored a statement to the same committee expressing concern that the
Draft Declaration and Draft Programme of Action did not give sufficient recog-
nition to the family “as a basic social institution and an undisputable social net-
work,” nor did it reflect its “vital contributions to individuals and its impact on
society.”17
BIC statements on social development have emerged from reflection of
practice within the Bahá’í Community. For example, a UNIFEM-funded Bahá’í
International Community project “Traditional Media as Change Agent” which
started in 1991 had its origins in a statement by the Bahá’í International Commu-
nity to the UN Commission on the Status of Women in 1988 which suggested
that “a primary target for communication related to development projects for
women may well be men.” The project, which commenced in a rural region of
eastern Cameroon in 1991, began with community consultation on the responsi-
bilities carried by the males and females within the family and the community.
Increased awareness amongst the males of the disproportionate duties con-
ducted by the women led to new agreements concerning responsibility for
child-care.18
The Essential Role of Religious Belief
The BIC has contributed to the articulation of the meaning of ‘spiritual de-
velopment’ as referred to in UN documents. For instance, a document pre-
sented to a Consultation on “Development Social Welfare Policies and
Programmes” in Vienna in September 1987,19 drew attention to (Article 13 (b))
(“The establishment of a harmonious balance between scientific, technological
and material progress and the intellectual, spiritual, cultural and moral advance-
ment of humanity.”), pointing out that spiritual factors include “social harmony,
integration, and unity within the individual and in society.”20 Such cooperative
trends exist in current social relations, and could be expanded if given “wide
and systematic support, lead to a rapid channeling of the earth’s abundant re-
sources and the application of its technical know-how for the redress of cur-
rent material problems.”21
The BIC has also contributed an understanding of the proper role of reli-
gion as source of inspiration and has suggested that Religion “has played and
continues to play an important role in facilitating a spirit of cooperation as well

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
as of service and harmony.”22 Historically, religion has exerted a “profound
influence on all societies” had has been a primary force for social progress:
Those universal spiritual principles which lie at the heart of religion—tolerance, compas-
sion, love, justice, humility, sacrifice, trustworthiness, dedication to the well-being of oth-
ers, and unity – are the foundations of progressive civilization.23
In Comments on the Draft Declaration and Draft Programme of Action for
Social Development presented at the second session of the Preparatory Com-
mittee for the World Summit for Social Development in August 1994 the BIC
was critical of the fundamentally materialistic view of “the purpose and funda-
mental nature of the individual and society.” Development measured in terms
of “at every level of our world society to promote economic and social justice”
are all essential elements of the development paradigm for the 21st century,
but they are not sufficient.
Development will only result from a balanced regard to both spiritual and
material dimensions. For instance, rather than simply being the implementation
of social policy, development requires such spiritual values as “a sense of
excellence, a willingness to sacrifice, integrity, trustworthiness, capacity for
co-operation and a desire for unity.”24
The idea that meeting material needs; providing universal education; and
fashioning democratic institutions and legal codes, are the main factors in se-
curing social development suggests a purely materialistic conception of devel-
opment. It presumes that human happiness, security and well-being, social
cohesion, and economic justice will result as by-products of material success –
a premise which in the Bahá’í view is false, since such conditions are in reality
produced through a “complex and dynamic interplay between the satisfaction
of material and social needs and the spiritual fulfillment of the individual.”
Satisfaction of both spiritual and material needs requires an appeal to universal
values that allow the individual to transcend “narrow self-interest,” and that
recognise the interdependence “of the peoples and nations of the planet.”25
The Bahá’í International Community urged that the Declaration and Programme
of Action penned at the Copenhagen Summit on Social Development “address
in a substantive manner the constructive role that religion should play in social
development.”26

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
The Primacy of Education and Training over the Restraints Offered by Laws
Bahá’ís have long been involved in the promotion of human rights, both
within the framework of the evolving UN system, and beyond it.27 Bahá’í com-
munities were active participants in the International Human Rights Year, 1968,28
and have contributed greatly to human rights discussions in international meet-
ings many times since. This involvement has recently been noted by Traer, who
observed that the Bahá’í statement of 1968 was similar to that of the Commis-
sion of Churches on International Affairs, in that both emphasised the principle
that “…governments could not grant human rights, but could only recognize the
human rights which man, by virtue of his being and destiny, already possessed.”29
It is certainly the case that the Bahá’í contribution includes constant reminders
of the historic connection between the ancient quest for knowledge, rooted in
all the major religious and cultural traditions, and the modern expression of
the same “fundamental right” as expressed in such formulations as freedom of
thought, conscience and belief.30
BIC activity within the UN focused on defence of the rights of Bahá’ís
persecuted for their beliefs in Iran and other countries have sensitized the
Bahá’í Community to issues of religious prejudice, and to the search for rem-
edies to such persecution. At the same time, this experience has contributed to
the BIC’s awareness of the existing human rights mechanisms, and allows it to
make proposals concerning practical reforms to the system. Despite its flagrant
disregard for its obligations as a signatory to the ICCPR, Iran “…has neither
denounced, derogated from, nor attached any reservations to the ICPR since the
succession of the Khomeini government.”31 In “Religious Human Rights Under
the United Nations,” Lerner describes the reporting process, and provides an
instance in which the fate of the Bahá’í Community is mentioned:
The yearly reports of the [Human Rights] Committee, issued as General Assembly Offi-
cial Records (GAPR), Supplement No. 40, contain rich information on religious rights.
When examining the periodic state reports, members of the Committee asked relevant
questions and required additional information from the representatives of the states on
legislation and facts concerning such rights. Just to mention a few recent instances, when
the second periodic report of Morocco was discussed, questions were asked regarding
procedures relating to the recognition of religious sects, the status of the Bahá’í Faith,
marriages between members of different religious groups, and the meaning of terms such
as ‘religion of the state’, ‘revealed religions’ or ‘heretical sects’.32
In the Bahá’í view, freedom of belief in matters of religion is best pursued
by promoting education.33 Since prejudice “…has no basis in logic or reason,”

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
and “…cannot be legislated out of existence,”34 the BIC has suggested that suc-
cess in implementing the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intol-
erance and of Discrimination based on Religion or Belief lay in the document’s
wide dissemination, and in taking determined and active steps to “promote
understanding, tolerance and respect in matters relating to religion or belief.
While laws may “…prevent the gross and overt victimization of individuals or
groups” they cannot “…remove the seeds of prejudice from men’s hearts.”35
In 1993 the United Nations convened a Conference in Vienna to review
global progress in advancing human rights.36 In addition to presenting a state-
ment, the BIC presented a joint statement on behalf of fourteen other religious
NGOs concerning the promotion of religious tolerance, a statement that
emphasised the role of education, rather than law, in promoting tolerance:
If tolerance is rooted in love, intolerance is often rooted in the cultural and historical
antagonisms associated with religious traditions. Because antagonisms are often born of
ignorance and limited understanding, education can reveal the common spiritual values
underlying various beliefs and practices and can thereby foster religious tolerance. The
role of the individual in promoting tolerance is of paramount importance. Legal mecha-
nisms alone will not end religious intolerance as long as people believe that differences in
religious beliefs and practices are legitimate grounds for discrimination. Therefore, educa-
tion programs must be aimed not only at providing accurate information and correcting
misconceptions but at identifying those principles and values that will open both minds
and hearts. It is proposed, therefore, that education seek to foster not just tolerance of
religious diversity but genuine appreciation for various beliefs. Curriculum must include
not only study of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination based on Religion or Belief but the comparative study of various scriptures
and spiritual traditions. Such an exploration, if undertaken with an open mind, will doubt-
less reveal remarkable similarities among religious teachings on ethical matters. The dis-
covery of a common thread of shared values will help to instill in individuals an appreciation
for the Declaration and demonstrate its necessity.37
The BIC has also presented statements concerning the promotion of reli-
gious tolerance at other UN sessions, particularly those of the Commission on
Human Rights.38 In August 1993 it suggested to the Sub-Commission on the Pre-
vention of Discrimination and Protection of Minorities a call for “…efforts to
promote greater understanding amongst all people, particularly through inter-
faith dialogues and through systematic efforts by the Centre for Human Rights
to disseminate the principles of the 1981 Declaration through the media” and
urged their inclusion in the curriculum of schools and universities.39

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
When the United Nations declared the UN Decade for Human Rights Edu-
cation (1995-2004) the BIC submitted a written statement to the UN Commis-
sion on Human Rights indicating its full support for the Commission’s Plan of
Action. The BIC commented:
The Plan of Action prepared by the High Commissioner for Human Rights reflects this
integrated conception of education by defining human rights education as “training, dis-
semination and information efforts aimed at the building of a universal culture of human
rights through the imparting of knowledge and skills and the moulding of attitudes which are
directed to:
a) The strengthening of respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms;
b) The full development of the human personality and the sense of its dignity;
c) The promotion of understanding, tolerance, gender equality and friendship among all
nations, indigenous peoples and racial, national, ethnic, religious and linguistic groups;
d) The enabling of all persons to participate effectively in a free society; and
e) The furtherance of the activities of the United Nations for the maintenance of peace.
The Bahá’í International Community fully embraces these goals and objectives. Human
rights education, if it is to succeed, must seek to transform individual attitudes and behaviour
and thereby establish, within every local and national community, a new “culture” of
respect for human rights. Only such a change in the fundamental social outlook of every
individual - whether a government official or an ordinary citizen - can bring about the
universal observance of human rights principles in the daily lives of people. In the final
analysis, the human rights of an individual are respected and protected - or violated - by
other individuals, even if they are acting in an official capacity. Accordingly, it is essential to
touch the hearts, and elevate the behaviour, of all human beings, if, in the words of the Plan
of Action, human rights are to be transformed “from the expression of abstract norms” to
the “reality” of the “social, economic, cultural and political conditions” experienced by
people in their daily lives.”40
In 1993 the BIC suggested the three most significant obstacles to the imple-
mentation of human rights as being “the exercise of unfettered national sover-
eignty,” inadequate enforcement mechanisms for human rights treaty obligations,
and a general lack of awareness of human rights, “…particularly among those
entrusted with administering justice at the local level.”41
Accordingly, the BIC has frequently supported the idea of strengthen-
ing various branches of the UN. In regard to the enforcement of compliance
with human rights obligations, it recommended to the Vienna Conference on

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
Human Rights in 1993 that such Committees as the Human Rights Committee
and the Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination be strength-
ened, and that international criminal jurisdiction for crimes against humanity
and for flagrant violations of internationally recognized human rights be in-
vested in a permanent body.42 At other times the BIC has suggested wording for
declarations being drafted by the Commission on Human Rights.43
The Need for a Values-based Approach that Begins
at the Level of Individual Responsibility
This approach to development emphasises the need for moral and ethical
values, without which problems of corruption, crime and erosion of family-life
will render real development impossible. It also emphasises the need for
change at grass roots, as much as in institutions at higher levels.44 Hence the BIC
suggested to the 49th (1993) session of the United Nations Commission on
Human Rights on the issue of realizing the economic, social and cultural rights
contained in the UDHR and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and
Cultural Rights: “The fostering of grassroots initiative is essential to the elimi-
nation of poverty; this concept has both moral and educational implications which
demand profound study: 45
In the New World Order envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, rights are inseparable from responsibili-
ties. A fundamental purpose of life is to contribute to the advancement of civilization.
Idleness and begging are unacceptable in a well-functioning society, while work performed
in the spirit of service is elevated to the station of worship. Thus the right to work, the right
to contribute to society, takes on a spiritual dimension, and the responsibility to be pro-
ductive applies to everyone. This attitude toward work profoundly influences the Bahá’í
approach to social and economic development. Communities are encouraged to identify
their own needs and initiate their own projects, many of which focus on alleviating pov-
erty.46
Several BIC statements illustrate this principle with examples from the
experience of the Bahá’í Community.47 Popular participation is essential to the
success of social programmes. “It promotes the dignity of individuals and en-
ables communities to benefit from the outflow of human creativity and spirit.”48
Yet another aspect of promoting ‘grass roots’ responsibility and participation
concerns promotion of a ‘work ethic’:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
Both the responsibility and the right to work are sacred. Idleness and begging have no place
in a well-functioning society, while work performed in the spirit of service is elevated to
the station of worship. The Special Rapporteur states that “the poorest, in general, in their
capacity as citizens, are neither associated to the decision making process nor are they
allowed to exercise responsibilities within the community.” This situation is unacceptable,
given that a fundamental purpose of life is to contribute to the advancement of civilization.
Thus the right to work takes on a spiritual dimension, and the responsibility to be produc-
tive applies to everyone.49
The role of the individual is further treated in The Prosperity of Humankind.
This document, referred to above, suggests that the maturation of society (the
group) has not occurred at the expense of individuality. It requires, rather, for
its fullest development, the development of the potential of each individual.
Observations on the Effectiveness of the United Nations Organization
A final theme of Bahá’í contributions to dialogue on rights and develop has
focused on the development institutions and processes themselves. The BIC
first commented on the structure of the United Nations Organization in 1955.50
The BIC has promoted the Bahá’í view that ultimately a world federation will
emerge, either through restructuring or transformation of the United Nations
system.51 Optimal global institutions will emerge through diligent regard to
the effectiveness of existing structures, and their revision in light of experi-
ence and need.
The Operation of the NGO System
In addition to commenting on the UN structure, the BIC has contributed
ideas concerning the operation of the NGO system. When invited to comment
on the operation of ECOSOC Resolution 1296, which regulates the arrange-
ments for consultations between NGOs and the UN at meetings called by
ECOSOC and its subsidiary bodies, the BIC made a number of specific recom-
mendations. It noted that the resolution’s failure to consider arrangements for
NGO participation in meetings called by the General Assembly or other non-
ECOSOC entities of the United Nations System results in “a wide range of
confusing and contradictory approaches to NGO participation in non-ECOSOC
meetings” and pointed to the need for “a common framework which would
maximize the number and diversity of NGOs able to participate.”52 It suggested
that the guidelines be extended to cover NGO activities with the Commission
on Sustainable Development. The BIC recommended making a distinction be-
tween accreditation for participation in year-round consultations, and participa-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
tion in ‘one or twice in a life-time conferences’, such as the “World Confer-
ences.” It encouraged distinguishing between NGOs that operate at global, na-
tional and local levels, and that operate at local levels, and suggested that this
could be accomplished by allowing local NGOs to participate in meetings of
UN Regional Commissions, regional preparatory meetings for global confer-
ences, and in the activities of Special Rapporteurs and Representatives. The
BIC also encouraged the expansion of consultative status for NGOs beyond
ECOSOC to the entire UN system, pointing out that issues of human rights are
increasingly reaching the Security Council before they reach the Commission
on Human Rights. In short, the BIC encouraged a general expansion of NGO
participation in UN deliberations.
Conclusions
This paper has summarised the contributions made by the BIC to dialogue
within the United Nations system concerning the advancement of human rights.
Over a 50-year period the BIC has monitored the progress of the rights dia-
logue closely and carefully. It has made contributions to this dialogue in a prin-
cipled and systematic manner. In other words, it has shown its commitment to
the dialogue process by being an active participant in regular sessions of the
Human Rights Commission as well as in the various special Conferences and
events that were held in the second half of the twentieth century to promote the
causes of human and social development. In addressing the issues of rights to
human and social development the BIC has drawn on the principles enunciated
in the Bahá’í Writings, and on the experience of Bahá’í communities that are
endeavouring to put these principles into practice. Ironically, part of the Bahá’í
experience has been of deprivation of the very rights that Bahá’ís champion,
particularly freedom of thought, the right to education, and to freedom of reli-
gious belief. However, at a broader level, the work of the BIC provides an
exemplary model of NGO involvement in and support for the processes of
dialogue that are advancing the practices of rights-based governance and social
responsibility for people everywhere.
Footnotes
That the Bahá’í Sacred Writings include wise counsel on remedies to the ills confronting the
modern world is evident to their reader, irrespective of whether he or she is a professed
believer in their Divine origins. The Bahá’í International Community, an NGO with consultative
Status at the United Nations’ Economic and Social Council, has played a major role in correlating
Bahá’í beliefs with the emerging pattern of human rights norms. For a description of the Bahá’í
International Community see www.bic-un.bahai.org/99-0522.htm.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
A statement outlining the Bahá’í perspective on human rights entitled “A Bahá’í Declaration of
Human Obligations and Rights” was presented to the first session of the United Nations
Commission on Human Rights in February 1947: The National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís
of the USA presented A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and Rights to the United
Nations in February 1947, as a contribution to discussions leading to the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights, of 1948.
These are summarized in the quadrennial reports of the Bahá’í International Community to the
Economic and Social Council. The four reports published on the Bahá’í International Community’s
website are: 81-0269: Quadrennial Report To The UN Economic & Social Council (ECOSOC) 1977-
1981; 86-0620: Quadrennial Report to the UN Economic & Social Council (ECOSOC) 1981-1985; 90-
0510: Quadrennial Report to the UN Economic & Social Council (ECOSOC) 1986-1989; and 94-0601:
Quadrennial Report to the Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC), 1990-1993.
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights. www.unhchr.ch/udhr/index.htm. For further infor-
mation on the background and operation of the UNHDR, as well as on its practical influence, see
www.universalrights.net.
International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. www.unhchr.ch/html/menu3/b/a_ccpr.htm.
International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. www.unhchr.ch/html/menu3/
b/a_cescr.htm.
These treaties, and the signatories to them, are accessible at the University of Minnesota
Human Rights Library, www1.umn.edu/humanrts/instree/auob.htm.
See Mendez, Ruben P. The United Nations Development Programme: A History. at
www.yale.edu.unysys/UNDPhist.htm
UNDP (1999). Human Development Report. New York, NY and Oxford, United Kingdom:
Oxford University Press. pp.9-12.
10 Bahá‘í International Community (May 1992). Restructuring the International Order. Statement to
the 16th Meeting of the Committee of Representatives of Governments and Administrations
(CRGA) of South Pacific Commission (SPC) Noumea, New Caledonia. pp. 18-22. (Bahá’í Interna-
tional Community Document #92-0518).
11 Bahá’í International Community (June 1993). Development, Democracy and Human Rights. State-
ment to the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights Agenda Item 10: Consider-
ation of the relationship between development, democracy and the universal enjoyment of all
human rights, keeping in view the interrelationship and indivisibility of economics Social, cul-
tural, civil and political rights, Vienna, Austria. pp. 14-25. (Bahá’í International Community Docu-
ment #93-0610).
12 Bahá‘í International Community (6 March 1995). Prosperity. Oral statement presented to the
plenary of the United Nations World Summit on Social Development, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(Bahá’í International Community Document #95-0305).
13 Bahá‘í International Community (12 February 1993). Human Rights and Extreme Poverty. State-
ment to the 49th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Agenda item 7:
Question of the realization in all countries of the economic, social and cultural rights contained
in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the International Covenant on Economic,
Social and Cultural Rights, and study of special problems which the developing countries face in
their efforts to achieve these human rights, including: problems related to the right to enjoy an
adequate standard of living; foreign debt, economic adjustment policies and their effects on the
full enjoyment of human rights and, in particular, on the implementation of the Declaration on
the Right to Development, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document
#93-0212).

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
14 Bahá‘í International Community (August 1994). Human Rights and Extreme Poverty. Statement to
the United Nations Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of
Minorities, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #94-0817).
15 The Bahá’í International Community statement can also be found at www.un.org/documents/
ga/conf166/ngo/950306124451.htm
16 “The Bahá‘í International Community, therefore, urges the PREPCOM to reject the justifications
of narrow material and national self-interest and adopt the oneness of humanity as the moral
and ethical touchstone for the proposed global strategy and action-plan for social development.
Embracing such a unifying principle will facilitate both the discovery and the implementation of
enduring solutions to the overwhelming social development problems facing the Summit. For
only as the peoples of the world come to view the planet as one home and all its inhabitants as
one people, will the vision, moral integrity and commitment necessary to address the complex
challenges of social development emerge. Then and only then will humankind be able to erect
a single social order whose boundaries are those of the planet.” Bahá’í International Community
(31 January-11 February 1994). Global Action Plan for Social Development. Contribution to the first
substantive session of the Preparatory Committee for the United Nations World Summit for
Social Development, New York, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #94-0121).
17 Bahá‘í International Community (June 1994). Family and Social Development. Joint NGO state-
ment drafted by the NGO Committee on the Family at the First Preparatory Committee (Prepcom)
for the World Summit for Social Development and presented at the Second Prepcom, Vienna,
Austria. (Bahá’í International Community Document #94-0705J).
18 Bahá’í International Community (June 1993). Approaching Men to Improve Lives for Women.
UNIFEM News, Volume 1, Number 2. p. 21. (Bahá’í International Community Document #93-
0601).
19 Bahá’í International Community (7-15 September 1987). Social Progress. Written statement to the
United Nations Interregional Consultation “Interregional Consultation on Development Social
Welfare Policies and Programmes,” Vienna, Austria. (United Nations Document #E/CONF.80/
NGO; Bahá’í International Community Document #87-0909).
20 ibid.
ibid.
ibid.
Bahá‘í International Community (22 August-2 September 1994). The Role of Religion in Social
Development. Comments on the Draft Declaration and Draft Programme of Action for Social
Development (A/CONF.166/PC/L.13) presented at the second session of the Preparatory
Committee for the World Summit for Social Development, New York, NY. (Bahá’í International
Community Document #94-0824).
24 Bahá’í International Community. Social Progress.
Bahá‘í International Community (22 August-2 September 1994). Toward a Development Paradigm
for the 21st Century. Comments on the Draft Declaration and Draft Programme of Action for
Social Development (A/CONF.166/PC/L.13) presented at the second session of the Prepara-
tory Committee for the World Summit for Social Development, New York, NY. (Bahá’í Interna-
tional Community Document #94-0822).
26 Bahá‘í International Community. The Role of Religion in Social Development.
27 See Hainsworth, Philip (1985). Bahá’í Focus on Human Rights. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust;
Cole, J. R. (1984). Human Rights and the Bahá’í Faith; Roshanian, T. (1985). Circle of Unity. Los
Angeles, CA: Kalimat Press; Human Rights and World Peace. Circle of Peace . Los Angeles, CA:
Kalimat Press.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
28 North American Bahá’í Office for Human Rights (1968). Human Rights are God Given Rights.
Report of Activities in Observance of International Human Rights Year 1968. Wilmette, IL:
North American Bahá’í Office for Human Rights.
29 Traer, R. (1991). Faith in Human Rights: Support in Religious Traditions for a Global Struggle.
Washington, DC: Georgetown University Press. p.182, citing Mary Ellen Togtman Wood 9Win-
ter/Spring 1989). Prerequisites to Human Rights: A Bahá’í Perspective. Breakthrough 10, nos. 2, 3.
pp. 41-42.
30 Hence the Bahá’í International Community refers to the “right of each individual to investigate
reality for himself or herself, and to benefit from the results of this exploration.“ Bahá’í Inter-
national Community. Development, Democracy and Human Rights.
31 Allen, P. D. (1987). The Bahá’ís of Iran: A Proposal for Enforcement of International Human Rights
Standards. Cornell International Law Journal 20(2). p. 345.
32 GOAR, Forty Seventh Session, Supp. No 40 (A/47/40), 1994, 15 17.), p.99, in Lerner, N. (1996).
Religious Human Rights Under the United Nations. Religious Human Rights in Global Perspective:
Legal Perspectives. The Hague, Boston & London: Martinus Nijhoff Publishers. pp. 79-134.
33 “The most powerful remedy for religious superstition and contention is an examination of the
original teachings of the founders of the world’s great faiths. No student of co mparative religion
can fail to be struck by the extraordinary degree of harmony to be found in these original
scriptures. Certainly, a fair-minded examination of these principal sources for the civilizing of
human nature will reveal nothing to support the animosities that pit one religious community
against another,” Bahá‘í International Community (February-March 1992). Creating a Climate of
Religious Tolerance. Statement submitted to the 48th session of the United Nations Commis-
sion on Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #92-
0210).
34 Bahá‘í International Community (18 February 1993). Eliminating Religious Intolerance. Statement
to the 49th session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Agenda item 22:
Implementation of the Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Intolerance and of
Discrimination Based on Religion or Belief, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Commu-
nity Document #93-0218).
35 ibid.
36 United Nations (14-25 June 1993). Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. World Confer-
ence on Human Rights, Vienna, Austria. (A/Conf.157/23).
37 Bahá‘í International Community (14-25 June 1993). Promoting Religious Tolerance. Joint statement
presented by the Bahá‘í International Community to the World Conference on Human Rights
on behalf of the following non-governmental organizations: Anglican Observer Office at the
United Nations, Bahá‘í International Community, Dayemi Complex, Gray Panthers, Interna-
tional Association for the Defense of Religious Liberty, International Council of Jewish Women,
International Mahavir Jain Mission, International Organization for World Peace, Disarmament,
and Human Rights, Pax Romana, Planetary Citizens, Temple of Understanding, Unitarian Uni-
versalist, Voice of the World’s Citizens, and World Spiritual Assembly Vienna, Austria. (Bahá’í
International Community Document #93-0612J).
38 Bahá‘í International Community (10 January 1995). Promoting Religious Tolerance. Written state-
ment submitted to the 51st session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #95-0110).
39 Bahá‘í International Community (August 1993). Ending Religious Intolerance. Statement to the
United Nations Sub-Commission on the Prevention of Discrimination and Protection of Mi-
norities, Geneva, Switzerland.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights to Human and Social Development
40 Bahá‘í International Community (1997). Human Rights Education. The Bahá’í World 1995-96.
Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications. pp. 295-308.
41 Bahá‘í International Community (14-25 June 1993). Obstacles to Progress in Human Rights. State-
ment to the United Nations World Conference on Human Rights Agenda Item 9: General
debate on the progress made in the field of human rights since the adoption of the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights and on the identification of obstacles to further progress in this
area, and ways in which they can be overcome, Vienna, Austria. (Bahá’í International Community
Document #93-0609).
42 ibid.
43 Bahá‘í International Community (18 January 1993). Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
Written statement to the 49th session of the Commission on Human Rights Agenda Item 23:
Draft Declaration on the Right and Responsibility of Individuals, Groups and Organs of Society
to Promote and Protect Universally Recognized Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms,
Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #93-0200; UN Document
#E/CN.4/1993/NGO/5).
44 ibid.
45 Bahá‘í International Community. Human Rights and Extreme Poverty.
46 ibid.
47 Eg, “In Bolivia a project in the Chaco region strives to uplift and empower a long-ignored
population of impoverished farmers through an integrated program of technical training, commu-
nity organization, and spiritual ideas. The goal is to cultivate self-sufficiency through community
awareness in order to reduce dependency on outside aid and advice. The Bahá‘í International
Community believes that fostering grass-roots initiative is essential to the elimination of pov-
erty. The concept of uplifting and empowering individuals and communities has both moral and
educational implications which demand profound study.” Bahá‘í International Community. Hu-
man Rights and Extreme Poverty.
48 Bahá‘í International Community. Social Progress.
49 Bahá‘í International Community. Human Rights and Extreme Poverty.
50 Bahá‘í International Community (1955). Proposals for Charter Revision Submitted to the United
Nations by the Bahá‘í International Community. Wilmette, IL: Bahá‘í Publishing Trust.
51 Bahá‘í International Community. Prosperity.
52 Bahá‘í International Community (June 1994). Arrangements for Consultations with Non-Govern-
mental Organizations. Statement of the first session of United Nations Economic and Social
Council (ECOSOC) Open-Ended Working Group on the Review of Arrangements for Consul-
tations with Non-Governmental Organizations. Agenda item 3: General review of arrangements
for consultations with Non-Governmental Organizations (NGOs) New York, NY. pp. 20-24.
(Bahá’í International Community Document #94-0621).

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
The Right to Development Assistance, and the
Duty to Contribute: A Case Study from Zambia
BY DARREN HEDLEY
The inordinate disparity between rich and poor, a source of acute suffering, keeps the world in
a state of instability, virtually on the brink of war…The solution calls for the combined
application of spiritual, moral and practical approaches. A fresh look at the problem is
required, entailing consultation with experts from a wide spectrum of disciplines, devoid of
economic and ideological polemics, and involving the people directly affected in the deci-
sions that must urgently be made.
Universal House of Justice, The Promise of World Peace, 1985
Introduction and Background
We live in a time of increasing polarization of wealth and poverty, a pro-
cess which provides some of the most poignant examples of how the interna-
tional community allows basic human rights to be contravened. The United
Nations Human Development Report says the top 200 billionnaires had a com-
bined wealth of $1,1345 billion in 1999, up by $100 billion, while the income of
the 582 million poorest people in developing countries barely exceeds 10%
of that, at $146 billion. In the 30 wealthiest countries, life expectancy exceeded
75 years, while it averages 48.9 years in sub-Saharan Africa, and drops to 39.1 in
Malawi and 37.9 in Sierra Leone. These inequalities are now classified by the
UN as human rights violations, which now include economic, social and cultural
rights, not only political and civil rights.1

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
We see amongst us men who are overburdened with riches on the one hand, and on the
other those unfortunate ones who starve with nothing; those who possess several stately
palaces, and those who have not where to lay their head… This condition of affairs is
wrong and must be remedied. Now the remedy must be carefully undertaken.2
If the international community would recognize the right of every member
of the human family to the means of a secure livelihood, there could be a
greatly increased flow of aid funding into poverty reduction programs in the
most disadvantaged countries of the world. But few could argue that extra re-
sources would be enough; having rights does not necessarily imply simply
receiving handouts. Among numerous ingredients of effective development
programs, there is arguably a set of duties that the individual beneficiaries
should fulfill, to contribute to their own personal development and that of their
community. These duties are important not only in terms of the practical re-
quirements of implementing poverty reduction programs, but also in terms of
the spiritual development of the individuals, their families and communities.
And looking more broadly at such programs, by actively participating and con-
tributing at a local level, people develop capabilities to participate globally in
creating a more just, unified world.
This paper examines the experiences of a poverty reduction program imple-
mented in Zambia, Southern Africa, by an international NGO, CARE, and the
policy process whereby it sought to enshrine the principle of rights being
matched by responsibilities. Zambia has suffered a long-term economic de-
cline from being one of the wealthiest sub-Suharan countries in the 1960s to
one of the poorest (UNICEF, 1995), and like most African countries is currently
undergoing a structural adjustment programme (SAP) involving economic
liberalisation, privatisation, removal of food subsidies, introduction of fees
for services, and decentralization of government services. Few infrastructure
services like water and sanitation exist in peri-urban settlements, and the gov-
ernment has embraced policies of community participation and partnership to
mobilise more actors to assist with national development.
Since 1994, CARE’s Project Urban Self-Help (PUSH) has worked in peri-
urban settlements in Lusaka and Livingstone, with a combined population of
350,000, facilitating appraisals and needs assessments, forming community in-
stitutions that liaise with City Councils (“Area-Based Organisations,” or ABOs),
undertaking infrastructure improvements and establishing savings and loan ser-
vices. The project encouraged residents’ ownership and active participation in
their own development, as an element of the capacity-building and sustainability
of the project, while CARE provided capital funds and technical assistance for
water projects and other interventions.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
This expectation of considerable participation on the part of residents was
in line with widespread agreement internationally that long-term develop-
ment will require micro-level transformations (as well as macro transforma-
tions), involving people in strengthening their own capabilities, and establishing
transparent and effective local institutions. Despite initial agreements on this
point, however, many residents pressed for CARE to provide financial and
other “incentives” for them to participate in meetings and other work involved
in their communities, a practice common among many other local and interna-
tional organizations.
As PUSH was expanded into the Programme of Support for Poverty Elimi-
nation and Community Transformation (PROSPECT), it became necessary for
the programme to formally agree with stakeholders on its policy with respect
to incentives. The problem was reframed in terms of the objectives of sustain-
able livelihood improvement which the programme sought to achieve. Through
a consultation process, PROSPECT attempted to engage residents’ participation
in establishing a workable policy. As an expatriate manager of the programme,
I decided to shift from actively directing the final stages of this process to
encouraging Zambian staff to lead it. I hoped this decision would allow a more
locally-appropriate and sustainable policy to emerge which would be widely
owned by staff and counterparts. At the same time, I was conducting qualitative
research and writing a dissertation reflecting on both the policy content and
process.
This paper commences with a description of the context and the problem,
followed by an analysis of the issues involved from the perspective of the
Bahá’í Writings and other literature, and then an explanation of how the policy
was set and how stakeholders understood the issues. The paper provides an
insight, I hope, into the complexities of defining rights and responsibilities in
a world of stark economic contrasts, cultural divides and clashing organiza-
tional mandates.
Drawing on the Bahá’í Teachings in the Process of Development
Bahá’ís concerned with rights and duties in the field of international devel-
opment have the challenge, firstly, of understanding Bahá’u’lláh’s vision of a
more equitable world without uncritically inheriting elements of theories preva-
lent in the world today. In addition, one must attempt to discern potential “trans-
formational portals” from the present towards that vision, portals in which one
can visualize oneself moving and acting. One’s understanding of current reali-
ties and of medium and long term goals can not be static:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
…your assumptions, your ideals, the way you interpret the world around you, your aims,
your values, your approach to life are but a few of the elements that form the framework
of your endeavors.… The framework of your initiatives must evolve over the years, but
even when it is incomplete it must hold your actions together and give your movements
direction.3
Furthermore, they must be able to articulate their vision in various ways to
their co-religionists, to other development practitioners and researchers, and
to members of the general public. To engage in dialogue and action with like-
minded people often requires that Bahá’ís know and work within—but are not
constrained by—paradigms or frames4 which are regarded as setting and shap-
ing the wider agenda. The framework of human rights has risen in prominence
in international policy over the past two decades and is being mainstreamed
into the international development field in the form of “rights-based approaches”
to development.
This framework of human rights has been evolving since the 1948 Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, which Karel Vasak explains in terms of a frame-
work of three generations of human rights.5 The first generation pertains to
civil and political rights concerned with liberty, and the second generation
pertains to economic, social, and cultural rights concerned with issues of equal-
ity. The third generation pertains to collective or solidarity rights, outlined in
general terms in Article 28 of the Universal Declaration which declared: “Ev-
eryone is entitled to a social and international order in which the rights set
forth in the Declaration can be fully realized.” Weinberg points out that “…more
than establishing normative standards, the human rights discourse provides a
mechanism for people of divergent convictions to learn about each other, re-
solve particular disagreements, and arrive at new understandings of what is
possible for human beings.”6
The Bahá’í approach to the problem of extreme poverty is based on the
application of spiritual principles, encompassing all of these three generations
of rights. The bedrock of the Bahá’í approach is the principle of oneness, a
profound universal vision, implying a move towards greater solidarity, more
cooperative and consensual modes of decision-making, the equality of women
and men, and the unity in the diversity of the races. And it states unequivocally
that all human beings are born with equal rights, to grow and develop their
potentialities with equal opportunities. Bahá’u’lláh compared the world to the
human body, which is composed of a huge variety of cells, composing various
organs and systems, with very different but complementary functions.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
No cell lives apart from the body, whether in contributing to its functioning or in deriving its
share from the well-being of the whole. The physical well-being thus achieved finds its
purpose in making possible the expression of human consciousness; that is to say, the
purpose of biological development transcends the mere existence of the body and its
parts.7
Justice is a preeminent means to this oneness, and until justice is valued
over greed, the gap between the rich and the poor will continue to widen. A
new economic order can be founded only on a vision of community that is
world embracing and on an unshakable conviction of the oneness of mankind.
This allows a dialogue that expands beyond current economic constructs to one
that anticipates the emergence of a global system of relationships of equity and
justice. The economic system anticipated in the Bahá’í Writings, although it will
no doubt resemble the present system in many ways, will have significant points
of distinction.
The Bahá’í view of income distribution, for example, allows for differ-
ences but eliminates both extreme wealth and extreme poverty. This is ef-
fected through laws and regulations as well as by the promotion of voluntary
sharing, to limit personal wealth to moberate levels and provide all people
with the means for living a dignified life. Also, the Bahá’í Writings anticipate
the development of community social service institutions which afford relief
to the suffering, sustenance to the poor, shelter to the wayfarer, solace to the
bereaved, and education to the ignorant. At the same time, both the responsibil-
ity and the right to work for one’s sustenance is seen as sacred, and idleness and
begging are prohibited.8
In 1983 the Universal House of Justice called for the more widespread
incorporation of social and economic development into Bahá’í community life,
by beginning to apply spiritual principles, practice rectitude of conduct and
participatory consultation, “…to uplift themselves and thus become self-suffi-
cient and self-reliant.”9 “Progress in the development field will depend largely
on natural stirrings at the grass roots, and should receive its driving force from
those sources…,” and “all, irrespective of circumstances or resources, are en-
dowed with the capacity to respond in some measure to this challenge, for all
can participate in the joint enterprise of applying more systematically the prin-
ciples of the Faith to raising the quality of human life.”10
In a 1993 statement of the Office of Social and Economic Development
(OSED) approved by the Universal House of Justice, a number of concepts
were set forth, drawing on the previous decade’s experience. It stressed that
capacity-building and learning are the definition and goal of development:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
It has often been said that development is not a product to be delivered by the “devel-
oped” to the “underdeveloped.” Rather, it is a process the main protagonists of which have
to be the people themselves. The greatest concern of Bahá’í projects has to be the devel-
opment of the friends’ capacity to make decisions about their spiritual and material progress
and then to implement them. In an ideal project, while concrete action is directed to-
wards visible improvement of some aspect of life, success is measured by the impact
these actions have on the capacity of the community and its institutions to address devel-
opment issues at increasingly higher levels of complexity and effectiveness… Approaches
to development centered on the donation of goods and services, so characteristic of
traditional religious charity and the programs of the welfare state, are known to have
debilitating effects and often lead to paralysis.11
…learning to apply the Teachings to achieve progress could be taken as the very definition
of Bahá’í social and economic development.12
A further statement by the Bahá’í International Community relates this capac-
ity-building back to a vision of oneness and an ever-advancing civilization:
The most important role that economic efforts must play in development lies, therefore,
in equipping people and institutions with the means through which they can achieve the
real purpose of development: that is, laying foundations for a new social order that can
cultivate the limitless potentialities latent in human consciousness.13
On one level these statements appear to coincide with much of what is
being thought and written in the wider development field, but as we will see
there are quite challenging issues which relate to this focus on capacity-build-
ing.
The Emerging Consensus on Participation
In the face of disappointing results after decades of predominately top-
down and charity-based development, it has become a point of nearly universal
consensus among international organisations that people’s participation is es-
sential to development. This may be one of the only relatively unambiguous
lessons learned.
The international community can look back at a half-century of “develop-
ment” enterprise with mixed feelings, at best. Pessimism comes easily, as so-
lutions from the left are lacking legitimacy and promise, and welfare and
overseas development assistance commitments are hollowed out by Northern
governments’ need to reduce their deficits and respond to other imperatives.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
The “New Policy Agenda”14 of liberalisation and reduced government has often
failed to address the decline in economic growth in Africa and Latin America,
with negative effects on the poor.15 The World Bank itself, as a major propo-
nent of this agenda, has acknowledged that this restructuring does not lend
itself to clear, unambiguous solutions.16
Along with the discouraging trends, there has been a renewed global em-
phasis on poverty elimination, exemplified in the 1995 Copenhagen summit on
social development. Some of the ideas coming forward, echoing those of pre-
vious international task forces17 are for radical means to increase funds for
development and restructure the global order, such as a tax on global currency
transactions and more ambitious Third World debt relief. As important as re-
source transfer is, however, more charity is not the answer. The challenge needs
to be approached on a different order of magnitude, addressing the social,
economic and spiritual conditions which create and allow poverty to exist.
So what are the root causes of poverty? We have had a decades-long debate
over whether to blame poverty on structural inequality or Third World institu-
tional incapacity and corruption.18 Many see empowerment as the fundamental
need, but Thomas19 contrasts the views of Freire20 who saw empowerment in
terms of being conscientised to challenge existing power structures, and
Schumacher who focussed on deficiencies in education and technology and pre-
scribed self-help measures. Growing numbers believe that people must have
self-reliance and community solidarity - to be able to take local actions and to
influence policies and structural inequality.21 Thus, a practical approach to pov-
erty reduction recognises:
-
Local initiative is still the foundation, whether or not outside funds materialise
to support it: hundreds of thousands of grassroots organisations have formed
by poor people to help themselves achieve what development assis-
tance has failed to achieve;22
-
Outside funds should serve to leverage internal resources to maximise impact:
the gap between the supply and the need for development financing is
so great that whatever external funds are available should be used as
seeds which can lead to a sustainable harvest of internal capacities and
resources;
-
The benefit of development funds will be determined by the effectiveness of
programmes and capabilities: without viable development programmes in
place, which strengthen people’s capabilities, development funds gener-
ally increase dependency, fail to achieve sustainable benefits and ulti-
mately cause resentments and divisions;23

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
-
Maximise self-reliance and good governance as a negotiating position: to ne-
gotiate debt relief and a fairer global economy, Third World govern-
ments can gain a strong moral and practical position if they can demonstrate
a commitment to long-term national development, and popular participa-
tion in transparent institutions. This was the case in the recent manage-
ment of Uganda’s debt relief, involving a coalition of LNGOs, Novib,
Oxfam, the World Bank, and the Government of Uganda.24
This raises a final conception of participation, which is that participation is a
process in which the development and exercise of people’s capabilities is both
the means and the end. A capability can be defined as “…a developed capacity
to think and to act in a well-defined sphere of activity and according to a well-
defined purpose.”25 Important capabilities include the capability to look be-
neath the surface to understand social situations, to identify needs and potentials,
to initiate projects and sustain them to completion, to build environments of
unity based on an appreciation for diversity, and to understand and work with
one’s strengths and weaknesses. This conception fits well with current views
on the importance of capabilities in promoting household livelihood security,
exemplified in the following diagram by development guru Robert Chambers:
Figure 1: Capabilities as Basis of Sustainable Development
(Source: Chambers, R. (1997). Whose Reality Counts? Putting the First Last.
London: Intermediate Technology Publications.)

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
Human Nature and Participation
Of course, it would be of limited value to expect people to fulfill a re-
sponsibility to voluntary participation if they have little basic willingness to do
so even to a moderate extent. By definition, attempts to legislate or coerce
unpaid participation would be contrary to the ideal of volunteerism. This raises
the question of our assumptions about human nature, of people’s basic motives
for development. While it is beyond the scope of this paper to explore the
issue in depth, several observations can be made about the malleability and
unpredictability of human nature.
First, the Bahá’í principle on human nature, one which is probably intuitively
sensible to many people, is that all people have a dual nature, including a more
noble, community-minded aspect, as well as a more self-centred aspect. This
principle is critical in helping resolve what the Universal House of Justice
refers to as a “paralyzing contradiction” in which people proclaim their longing
for peace, harmony and progress, yet “…uncritical assent is given to the propo-
sition that human beings are incorrigibly selfish and aggressive and thus inca-
pable of erecting a social system at once progressive and peaceful, dynamic
and harmonious, a system giving free play to individual creativity and initiative
but based on co-operation and reciprocity.”26 Equally paralyzing, perhaps, may
be the assumption that the “poor” are somehow less capable of solidarity and
law-abiding behaviour than are the “rich” (however one might hazard to define
the two categories), as if material conditions of life dictate human behaviour.
From such an assumption one might conclude that the “poor” are helpless, and
that they must be provided with the means of existence and given a system to
live in which is constructed by the “rich” - who are often white and male, highly
educated, and particularly coming from or at least trained in “advanced” econo-
mies.
According to the Bahá’í view, people’s current behaviour may vary between
the noble and ignoble, but there is always the potential for them to learn that all
will benefit if we each become more cooperative and contribute towards pros-
perous communities and societies. The view is: I see oneself as part of one
human family—all have rights to the basic means of existence, I cannot be com-
fortable seeing others in abject poverty and am therefore drawn to work for
positive change, and I seek to develop myself so that I may contribute more
effectively to the development of all. By focusing more on this potential in
ourselves and others and striving towards it, we gradually reduce the presence
and influence of the less desirable traits, and bring out the real capabilities and
gifts in each individual. In particular, ‘Abdu’l-Bahá explained the importance of
religion and the influence of “True Educators,” or the Messengers of God:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
Man is said to be the greatest representative of God, he is the Book of Creation because
all the mysteries of being exist in him. If he comes under the shadow of the True Educator
and is rightly trained, he becomes… the center of the divine appearances, the source of
spiritual qualities… If he is deprived of this education he becomes the manifestation of
satanic qualities, the sum of animal vices…27
With respect to this view on human nobility, we should hasten to add that
what is not intended is the abnegation of the individual’s concern and responsi-
bility for self and family. It is highly praiseworthy for an individual to engage
in work to support one’s family. It would be unfair for one to judge others in
terms of how they allocate their time, especially when their conditions are
clearly very difficult and different from one’s own. But it is equally misleading
to think there is a tradeoff between individual livelihood and community
wellbeing—the two are intrinsically intertwined. What is intended is that we
recognize that we all have rights and responsibilities, and that we all partici-
pate in building a society in which they can be exercised. If we don’t build this
society, who will?
Second, people’s current willingness to participate without payment is partly
an empirical question, which can be guaged through observation and research in
a variety of social-economic-cultural contexts. One does not have to look far in
any country to find examples of people voluntarily participating, and PROS-
PECT provides many such examples. Estimates in Britain range from 20% to
almost 50% of the population taking part in at least one voluntary activity each
year.28
Third, given that volunteers do exist, by no means does there seem to be
any simple answer to the question of what motivates volunteers. In a review of
research publications on the motivation of volunteers Van Til29 summarizes
their findings in the following propositions:
-
People volunteer for multiple reasons, among which are their own per-
sonal and social goals and needs
-
The individual who volunteers typically does so only after weighing
alternatives in deliberate fashion
-
The realm of voluntary action is complex and many-faceted, and differ-
ent organizational tasks appeal to different motivation forces
-
Concern for others, while not always purely altruistic, remains an im-
portant motivating force for much voluntary action

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
-
The motivation to give and to volunteer is shaped and constrained by
broader social realities, and particularly by the omnipresent reality of
world chaos and destruction
Smith30 finds a similar diversity of motivations, and also points out the cir-
cumstances leading to volunteering are important, that friends or relatives of-
ten recruit volunteers.
Fourth, clearly, people’s beliefs and images of the world and of social change
are very critical to shaping commitment and behaviour, and these images can
change. Boulding writes of people’s images of the world as conceptual frame-
works which guide thinking, and which are themselves influenced to varying
degrees by new information. The significance of the new information, how-
ever, is not intrinsic and universal but rather depends on how each individual
filters and interprets it—“the meaning of the message is the change which it
produces in the image.”31 Much debate about social change is in terms of di-
chotomies, such as dichotomous images of human nature (eg. altruistic vs. self-
serving, material vs. spiritual), or dichotomous images of how society is divided
and what a “good society” is (eg. urban vs. rural, capitalist vs. communist). While
these dichotomies are useful heuristic or learning devices, they should not be
treated as fixed realities.
An increasing stream of theoretical trichotomies posit three alternative
images of human beings and institutions, and people tend to reflect principally
one of these images, perhaps the same image they see in themselves. Chin and
Benne describe three types of change strategies.
-
Empirical-rational—assumes people are rational, and will change if con-
sidered personally advantageous
-
Power-coercive - change comes about only through compliance with au-
thorities or those in positions of power, through fear of threat
-
Normative-reeducative - norms are the basis for behaviour, and change
is a reeducation process in which old norms are supplanted by new ones.32
Both the rational-empirical and power-coercive change strategies have their
place, but their materialistic image of human beings have often been imposed
by development agents in a way that doesn’t take account of the solidarity, hos-
pitality and reciprocity of other cultures. Development projects have tended to
convince grassroots people that their traditional modes of living, thinking and
doing are backwards, so “…the old convivial and familiar spaces which gave
the people life were, at best, reduced to ‘commercial centres’ where money
became the main instrument for social recognition and survival…”33 In addition
to being insensitive to culture, development has promoted productive eco-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
nomic activities while undervaluing the “reproductive” activities - mainly of
women—which underpinned them, including building the unity of the family
and community. There is an increasing need for men to share these responsi-
bilities, and create institutions that respond to the needs of the human spirit.34
Finally, there have been some good attempts to validate cultural, spiritual
images, such as the Four Worlds Development Project35 which developed a
curriculum and community development approach based on the guidance on
dozens of Native North American cultural elders. The Rural University in
Colombia, or FUNDAEC (Fundacion para la Aplicación y Ensenanza de las
Ciencias) places service to the community at the forefront of the rural wellbeing
training program in which tens of thousands of people throughout Latin America
are participating.36 The Orangi Pilot Project in Pakistan, one of the best known
urban development projects, draws specifically on a strong, spiritual tradition.
“The traditional principles of diligence, frugality, charity and modesty have
enabled Orangi people to build, without any subsidies, from their own savings,
their houses, their sanitation, their schools, their clinics, their transport.”37 Hope
and Timmel38 have provided a clear articulation of Christian and African com-
munity development and transformation, drawing on Freire’s critical aware-
ness, human relations training in group work, organisational development, social
analysis, and spiritual inspiration.
Establishing and Reflecting on The PROSPECT Policy On Participation,
Ownership & Community Service
If we are going to understand the duties of participation alongside the right
to development assistance, it is necessary to understand the manner in which
such a policy can be established. I now turn our attention to the way in which
this idea has been implemented and reflected on in PROSPECT.
In keeping with the evolutionary nature of the human rights discourse and
the learning approach of development projects explained above, the policy
sciences have been shifting from a rational, stage model of policy formulation
to an idea of policy cycles,39 competing paradigms and experiments in small
steps rather than through comprehensive, falsifiable theories.40 Similarly, de-
velopment projects have also tended to move away from a blueprint to an adap-
tive approach, with one model given as a series of successive stages:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
Much of what has been attempted in PROSPECT is explained in the ap-
proach known as Participatory Action Research (PAR—explained above), a learn-
ing approach developed by Freire, and popularised by writers such as Fals
Borda,41 and Rahman.42 Its central concern is how the poor and oppressed can
transform their own environment by their own praxis (action-reflection).
In this context, following requests by residents for “incentives” to pay for
their participation, we engaged in research to explore the question: is the vol-
untary service and community participation policy appropriate? This is, in a sense,
a test of whether it was fair and realistic to expect that there would be a duty of
participation to match the right to development assistance, and an exploration
of how the balance would work.
The research was conducted in 1998, and augmented by observations and
reflections dating back over the four years prior to that. The research was
focussed around qualitative approaches and the PAR framework, and was con-
ducted by myself in conjunction with several Zambian colleagues. The main
methods used were focus group discussions and semi-structured interviews
with residents, meetings with and written feedback from PROSPECT and Council
staff, and unstructured interviews with CARE International officials. Participa-
tory research has numerous benefits, including avoiding the fallacy of com-
plete research objectivity, and the separation of thought and action that has
characterized much of social science.43 Nonetheless, my position as manager of
PROSPECT could affect my views and conclusions, and other staff or residents
could wish to take advantage of research to advance an interest, so the research
program was balanced to moderate these potential biases. The key to validity
was that we strived to be critically self-aware, and practice intersubjectivity,
Figure 2 (Source: Cusworth, Franks (1995). Management of Development
Projects. London: Longman Scientific. After Rondinelli)
Experimental
Pilot
Demonstration
Production

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
dialogue among colleagues to test the ideas, systematically laying out and test-
ing the potential biases.
My general approach was to ask respondents what they understand the policy
and how it came about, how they have been affected by the content and process
of this policy, their opinion about its sustainability, what they think about mo-
tives, as well as the differential experiences and contributions of women and
the poor. Interviews were also held with a regular Zambia-based consultant to
CARE internationally, and with an internationally-recognized expert in urban
development.
Finally, a workshop was held with all PROSPECT staff, several City Coun-
cil staff, and two representatives from the community organizations in each of
our settlements, and it was facilitated by consultants. The workshop included
numerous small group sessions, including some stratified in terms of groups
such as residents, to encourage real opinions to come forward. This was the
workshop at which the policy was formally set out and adopted.
Research Results
CARE’s history had an important bearing on the evolution of the PROSPECT
policy. CARE International works in both relief and development, but gener-
ally when there is no national conflict or emergency, CARE seeks interven-
tions which have long-term developmental aims, not merely charity. CARE
Canada took the lead in establishing an office in Zambia in 1992 at the
government’s invitation, to help mitigate the effects of a national drought and
SAP. When the crisis faded, and recognising that PUSH activities were depen-
dent on continued food supplies, CARE Zambia sought to establish a more sus-
tainable urban project, in “PUSH II,” funded by the UK Overseas Development
Administration (now DFID) from 1994 to 1998. PUSH II aimed specifically to
overcome the reliance on food, to build sustainable development capacities
within the community, and thus in PUSH II and the subsequent PROSPECT poli-
cies, there was an avoidance of providing food as incentive.
In terms of appropriateness of the policy as viewed from an international
perspective, the experts interviewed and senior staff in CARE UK and CARE
Canada expressed strong support in the PROSPECT approach. They believed
that individuals have a core capacity of willingness to improve the community
which is important to nurture, although clearly most people have limitations in
their time available to contribute to wider development. So-called relief and
development incentives often do displace ownership and longer-term devel-
opment capabilities. Volunteerism weaves the social fabric of society, and

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
strengthens civil society. There were initially reservations expressed about
expecting “altruism” and generosity from the very poor. Then, examples would
be mentioned, of “absolute martyrs,” people like Anne Frank who—in the most
desperate conditions—are capable of nobility, or skipping some steps in
Maslow’s hierarchy. Uncertainty was expressed about whether such martyrs can
be cultivated, but it was felt that training would probably help to at least bring
some sense of community-mindedness.
When discussing the way in which volunteerism was practiced, it was re-
ported that residents’ contributions varied from a few hours a day for a week in
laying pipes, to large portions of days over a number of months, with clearly
larger burdens on the elected ABO members. The tangible contributions made
by residents are: labour, for example in laying pipes or helping dig bridge
foundations; management and leadership services, for example by ABO mem-
bers educating and supervising others; cash contributions, including water fees
and contributions for bridges. The expectation established between CARE and
the elected residents leaders, in the Chipata water project, was that residents
would work approximately four hours a day for five days of pipelaying and
water point construction, and that leaders might work one day per week. 70%
of the households did this, according to the Resident Development Committee’s
(RDC’s) records—while others reported spending six hours a day for almost
six months. In addition, several RDC members reported spending up to 12
hours daily for more than six months, although some of the staff questioned
these numbers.
In the Malota bridge project, residents determined their own contributions
spontaneously at the street level: some did the digging, others gathered water,
or cooked for those working, whilst others paid for the few skilled carpen-
ters. As one person commented: “We have no problem in working without pay,
and others working many days can get a payment.”
Our experience over several years, which was reinforced by the research,
finds a diversity of motivations among residents—common need, feeling of
ownership, hope for additional “incentives,” and respect - underpinned by a
tradition of strong mutual support between relations and friends. Perhaps it can
be summed up by saying that the main motivation for people to contribute their
time and labour, is mainly to address development needs—such as supply of
water—for themselves, their family and community. Most of the residents agreed
with the policy, especially women, and residents felt greater ownership for
development in their settlements, wanting to undertake further projects under
the same arrangements. Some RDC leaders and residents worked out of a sense
of service, addressing needs and feeling compelled to continue. At the same
time, some RDC members and general community members hoped for incen-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
tives, and Chipata residents were actually promised incentives of free water
by their community leaders, which didn’t materialise. Gaining self-respect and
respect of others was another important motive.
Residents indicated that they are willing to work alongside their neighbours
in a collective effort to address strongly-felt needs which they have identified.
In the Chipata water project, people expressed appreciation at avoiding the
previous dangers of long trips at 4:00 am to obtain water, more than saving
money and time as PROSPECT’s research indicated. Beyond the general sense
of cooperative work, there is a distinctive form of service orientation in which
contribution is out of proportion with personal benefit. Respondents in Chipata
and George identified two ABO chairpersons, and many ABO members and
residents explain their motive as “ozi peleka” or “kuzi peleka,” having service at
heart. They explained that once they had started working for the community it
was hard to stop because people got to know and need you more. They said,
“those of us with a conscience would feel guilty to abandon such work.”
More widespread in the community is a sense of mutual support, taking in
relatives for weeks at a time, sharing food, or helping others in time of sick-
ness or death. In particular, women traditionally provide unpaid services to
family members and others, so they participate in water projects to reduce
personal risks, and save money and time previously expended on collection.
Still, many staff members felt that unlike the village setting, where kinship
bonds and strong capabilities for solidarity exist, this motive is weak in the
monetary economy of peri-urban areas.
An important issue was that of allocation of benefits from projects, such as
the Chipata water project. There was proportionately greater participation from
women and the poorest, and some uncertainty about the extent to which they
could access the benefits due to the cost of the water, a problem which is
currently being addressed. The well-off could afford to pay a participation fee,
or hire others to work for them, while men often didn’t volunteer as they were
busy working, which women seemed generally to accept.
The interventions, such as the water schemes, show signs of sustainability,
such as the RDCs’ independence vis à vis CARE and the Council. The scheme is
financially self-sustaining, and Chipata RDC has already passed through one
difficult transition of power. Residents shared that sense of ownership to a
slightly lesser degree, while in some cases it was overshadowed by having
been misled by the RDCs. RDC leaders have agreed that any incentives for
sustainability will have to be generated internally, negotiated through their
participatory decision-making processes, and will be performance-related.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
The approach is showing a likelihood of developing capabilities to partici-
pate in governance in wider fora. The RDCs are increasingly seen as a legiti-
mate reference point and representative of the residents, and are invited to
help shape policy and plans of a number of government and international agen-
cies. They have confidence and capabilities to speak out on the basis of their
own real and sustained accomplishments, and the democratic institutions they
have behind them.
All factors considered, the content of the current policy can be concluded to
be basically appropriate, and there is nothing which needs to be removed or
fundamentally changed. This broad acceptance of the current policy was con-
firmed formally through a workshop in which ten RDC members and all PROS-
PECT staff participated, and in which as manager I was all but silent (not wanting
to inordinately influence the process, and reduce local staff’s ownership of the
process).
Equally important as a lesson to be learned from PROSPECT’s policy is the
process by which it came into being. The initial idea for the policy certainly
had much to do with international policy on community participation. The idea
of voluntary service was initially set out, and was gradually discussed and formed
the basis of a learning process. Diverse influences arose over the time period,
and some conflict surrounded the policy, until recently when it was repeatedly
placed on staff meeting agendas. Incremental adjustments have been made, until
demands and the opportunity of the new project created a launch window to
formalise the policy.
In learning about the policy, both staff and residents have changed and made
some compromises. We have realised the extent to which “incentives” rest on
having a sound overall approach to fostering community participation, owner-
ship and a spirit of service. Discretion and autonomy bring the needed flex-
ibility to innovate within the policy, such as seen with bridges and midden
boxes, but also confer a sense of responsibility. Culture turned out to be an
unknown and unexplored factor in determining individual and community re-
sponses to the policy.
Conclusions on Rights and Duties in Poverty Reduction Programs
People are often concerned that a rights-based approach to development
would become an exercise in handouts, which from a developmental point of
view would appear unsustainable and inappropriate. It seems justifiable, from
the perspective of the Bahá’í Teachings and from the standpoint of develop-
ment literature and practice, to expect that low-income “beneficiaries” of de-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
velopment assistance could also be considered “participants.” The case study of
PROSPECT in peri-urban Zambia demonstrates how a policy establishing that
arrangement has come into being and how it has been accepted. This suggests
that it is reasonable to expect that in keeping with the right to support from the
international community for livelihood improvement and community develop-
ment, individuals would also have a duty to bear—not just to work to take care
of themselves individually, but to contribute to the development of society.
This makes sense not only as a safeguard to sustainably and greater practical
impact, but as an element of the dignity and spiritual growth of the individual.
Though at times there may be real constraints in time and physical capacity
which must be respected, all people should be encouraged to make some mod-
erate contribution to the development of themselves, their family and commu-
nity. While not placing excessive expectations on them, the materially
disadvantaged may surprise us both with how much spiritual and other resources
they have and how much development is really about using those resources
rather than providing financial and material resources. Clearly, such an approach
must be carefully and flexibly implemented with open consultation with all
concerned, with due regard to important varying factors such as emergency
conditions etc.
As was the case with the formulation of the policy in PROSPECT, the prin-
ciple of service to humanity is perhaps a laudable one but can not be legis-
lated—neither with those whose basic needs are met, much less with the very
disadvantaged. This is an important Bahá’í principle, of the voluntary adoption
of principles, and the loving acceptance of people irregardless of their re-
sponse to our suggestions. Wherever possible it is desirable to give people
the choice of whether they will actively pursue opportunities for community
service. In the current context of development assistance, however, with lim-
ited resources for development and a tremendous call on those resources by
those who have received no assistance as yet, it could be argued that the duty
for beneficiaries to contribute a reasonable amount to their own development
be considered a fixed requirement. In keeping with the trends of partnerships
between civil society, government and the private sector, it might be inter-
preted that holders of resources must negotiate on behalf of donors (share-
holders) to obtain the best deal possible in terms of reaching out to the maximum
number of beneficiaries.
Ultimately, however, our perspective shouldn’t be reduced to the handing
out of services and goods, and the learning and capacity-building of people and
communities are really the essence of development. This will undoubtedly
provide the main principle by which to guide and refine policies to balance
rights and responsibilities in development.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
Footnotes
Brittain, V., Elliott, L. (29 June 2000). Rich Live Longer, Poor Die Younger in a Divided World.
Guardian.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 151.
Fundacion para la Aplicacion y Ensenanza de las Ciencias (FUNDAEC) (1999). Conceptual Foun-
dation for Social Action, Course Materials, Specialization course in Education and Develop-
ment. Cali, Colombia: FUNDAEC. p. 3.
Rein, M., Schön, D. (1993). Reframing Policy Discourse. In Fischer, F., Forester, J., eds. The
Argumentative Turn in Policy Analysis and Planning. London: Duke University Press.
Weinberg, M. (1997). The Human Rights Discourse: A Bahá’í Perspective. The Bahá’í World, 1996-
97.
ibid.
Bahá’í International Community (1995). The Prosperity of Humankind. London: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust. pp. 10-12.
ibid.
Universal House of Justice (1983). Letter Regarding Social and Economic Development.
10 ibid. p. 2.
11 Office of Social and Economic Development (OSED) (1993). Prospects for the Future. Haifa,
Israel: Bahá’í  World Centre.
12 ibid. p. 3.
13 Bahá’í International Community (1995). Prosperity of Humankind. Chapter V, paragraph 1, lines
3-11.
14 Hulme, D., Edwards, M. (1997). NGOs, States & Donors: Too Close for Comfort? Houndmills:
Macmillan Press.
15 Cornia, G., Jolly, R., Stewart, F. (1987). Adjustment with a Human Face: Protecting the Vulnerable
and Promoting Growth. London: Clarendon Press.
16 Minogue, M., Polidano, C., Hulme, D. (September 1997). Reorganising the State: Towards More
Inclusive Governance. IDS Insights, Issue 23.
17 Brandt Commission (1980). North-South: A Programme for Survival. Report of the Independent
Commission on International Development Issues under the Chairmanship of Willy Brandt.
London: Pan Books.
18 Mackintosh, M. (1992). Questioning the State. In Wuyts, M., Mackintosh, M., Hewitt, T. eds.
Development Policy and Public Action. Oxford: Oxford University Press.
19 Thomas, A. (1992). Non-governmental Organisations and the Limits to Empowerment. In Wuyts, M.,
Mackintosh, M., Hewitt, T. eds. Development Policy and Public Action. Oxford: Oxford Univer-
sity Press. pp. 117-146.
20 Freire, P. (1990). Pedagogy of the Oppressed. New York: Continuum.
United Nations Development Programme (1997). Human Development Report 1997. New York:
Oxford University Press; Rahman, A. (1993). People’s Self-Development: Perspectives on Par-
ticipatory Action Research. London: Zed Books; Esteva, G., Prakash, M. S. (1997). From Global
Thinking to Local Thinking. In Rahnema, M., Bawtree, V., eds. The Post-Development Reader.
London: Zed Books; Max-Neef, M. (1985). Another Development under Repressive Rule. Develop-
ment Dialogue, vol 1. pp 30-55; Ablow, F., Ameyaw, S. (1997). Ghana. In Campfens, H., ed.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Development Assistance, and the Duty to Contribute
(1997). Community Development Around the World: Practice, Theory, Research, Training. Toronto,
Canada: University of Toronto Press; Campfens, H., ed. (1997). Community Development Around
the World: Practice, Theory, Research, Training. Toronto: University of Toronto Press.
Durning, A. (1991). Ending Poverty. State of the World 1990. Washington, DC: Worldwatch.
Korten, D. (1990). Getting to the 21st Century: Voluntary Action and the Global Agenda. West
Hartford, CT: Kumarian Press.
24 Klugkist (1998). Personal Communication. The Hague, The Netherlands: NOVIB.
Arbab, F. (1994). Lectures on Bahá’í-Inspired Curricula. Riviera Beach, FL: Palabra Publishing. p. 42.
26 Universal House of Justice (1985). To the Peoples of the World: A Bahá’í Statement on Peace .
Ottawa, Canada: Association for Bahá’í Studies. p. 3.
27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 24.
28 Smith, J.D. (1992). What We Know about Volunteering: Information from the Surveys. In Hedley, R.,
Smith, J. D., eds. Volunteering and Society: Principles and Practice . London: National Council for
Voluntary Organisations. pp. 73-93.
29 Van Til, J. (1985). Mixed Motives: Residues of Altruism in an Age of Narcissism. In Moore, L.
Motivating Volunteers: How the Rewards of Unpaid Work Can Meet People’s Needs. Vancouver,
Canada: Vancouver Volunteer Centre. pp. 243-261.
30 Smith.
31 Boulding, K. (1956). The Image. Ann Arbor, MI: University of Michigan Press. p. 2.
32 French, W., Bell, C. (1995). Organizational Development: Behavioural Science Interventions for
Organizational Improvement 5th ed. Englewood Cliffs, NJ: Prentice Hall International Editions.
33 Rahnema, M. (1990). Participatory Action Research: The ‘Last Temptation of Saint’ Development.
Alternatives, vol .XV. p. 384.
34 Hope, A., Timmel, S. (1995). Training for Transformation: A Handbook for Community Workers.
Gweru, Zimbabwe: Mambo Press.
35 Four Worlds Development Project (1984). The Sacred Tree. Lethbridge, Canada: Four Worlds
Development Project.
36 Arbab, F. (1984). Rural University: Learning about Education and Development. Ottawa, Canada:
International Development Resource Centre.
37 Kahn, A. (1996). Orangi Pilot Project: Reminiscences and Reflections. Karachi, Pakistan: Oxford
University Press.
38 Hope, A., Timmel, S.
39 Hogwood, B., Gunn, L. (1984). Policy Analysis for the Real World. Oxford, United Kingdom:
Oxford University Press.
40 Parsons, W. (1995). Public Policy: An Introduction to the Theory and Practice of Policy Analysis.
Aldershot, United Kingdom: Edward Elgar.
41 Fals Borda, O. (1988). Knowledge and People’s Power: Lessons with Peasants in Nicaragua,
Mexico and Colombia. New York, NY: New Horizons Press.
42 Rahman.
43 Greenwood, D., Levin, M. (1998). Introduction to Action Research: Social Research for Social
Change. London: Sage.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
Bringing Rights Home: Human Rights and the
Institution of the Family
BY CHICHI LAYOR
Since the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (hereafter
Universal Declaration) by the United Nations General Assembly in 1948, hu-
man rights has come to be regarded as a subject of vital importance to society.
Over a hundred human rights documents or instruments, with varying legal sta-
tus, have been adopted at both the international and regional levels and ratified
by many states. The United Nations (UN) continues to play a major role in
promoting human rights, notably its machinery for monitoring and implement-
ing human rights and its sponsoring of various conferences on the subject. Aside
from the UN, many regional intergovernmental organizations, nongovernmen-
tal organizations (NGOs) and other organizations of civil society are actively
engaged in the arena of human rights.
Despite these commendable efforts, the human-rights discourse, as currently
posited, appears to be of little relevance to the family. Given that the majority
of activities undertaken in the name of human rights seem to be mainly high-
profile cases involving state violations of civil and political rights, it may be
concluded that the family has an insignificant role to play in the promotion and
protection of human rights. At present, human rights work would appear to be
the preserve of lawyers, governments, NGOs, human rights activists or the
UN. The current state of affairs is, however, unacceptable: respect for human
rights must begin within the family. If human rights are “literally the rights one
has simply because one is a human being”1, and if these rights are often violated
by individuals even when they are acting in an official capacity, then individual
behavior must be linked with respect for human rights. Human behavior is
largely based on knowledge, attitudes and beliefs, many of which are acquired
and played out within the family. Regardless of the position one might take in
the “nature versus nurture” debate, it would be difficult to deny that the family
is, in the words of the Universal Declaration, “the natural and fundamental group
unit of society.”2

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
The purpose of this article is to analyze, from a Bahá’í perspective, the role
of family rights in the contemporary human rights discourse. First, the rationale
for stressing family rights will be explained and human rights provisions relat-
ing to the family will be examined. Next, Bahá’í principles relating to family
rights will be discussed along with relevant provisions in human rights instru-
ments. Finally, it will be considered whether protecting family rights can help
to foster a human rights culture and thus accelerate “the advent of a world in
which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom
from fear and want” which is “the highest aspiration of the common people.”3
Definitions
It would be helpful to provide at the outset some definitions that are rel-
evant to the subject under discussion. Although these definitions may be con-
tested, they are considered valid for the purposes of this article. First, what is
meant by the term “human rights”? As mentioned earlier, these are rights that
human beings have simply because they are human. “Positive rights” arise from
the enactment of laws whereas human rights are essentially moral rights that
may or may not have legal backing. Human rights are God-given and not be-
stowed on us by the state although the state may take steps to promote and
protect the rights of its inhabitants. According to the human rights theorist Jack
Donnelly, “…a principal function of human rights is to shape social relations.”4
This point is affirmed by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá in a statement that also underscores the
non-absolute nature of rights and humanity’s need for “the moderate freedom
which guarantees the welfare of the world of mankind and maintains and pre-
serves the universal relationships.”5 Clearly, then, human rights are not merely
a collection of grandiose and impracticable principles that happen to be cur-
rently fashionable in certain circles. Rather, to be worthy of the term, human
rights must, of necessity, impact on morality as well as on legal and political
practices.
The second term to be defined is “family rights.” On the one hand, they are
the rights of the individuals within a family: thus for example, the rights of the
wife, husband or child.6 On the other hand, the family can be considered to
have certain rights as a group, as for instance, when the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights stipulates that a family is entitled to protection by society and
the State.7 The question of what is meant by protection will be considered
later.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
The Nexus Between the Family and Human Rights
Keeping in mind the aforementioned definitions, we will now explore the
correlation between the family and the promotion and protection of human
rights. A number of points can be made in this regard. To begin with, it is
necessary to refer to the function of human rights mentioned earlier, namely, to
guarantee the welfare of humankind and preserve social relationships. As one’s
first and most important relationships are often those established within the
family, it is in this environment that the awareness, promotion and protection of
human rights must begin. The possession of moral virtues, such as courtesy,
honesty and trustworthiness, is conducive to respect for the rights of others, for
human rights are often violated by individuals even when they are acting in an
official capacity. Knowledge of human rights law is not sufficient in itself but
must be buttressed by the possession of moral attributes that are more easily
acquired within the family environment.. A statement by the Bahá’í International
Community highlights the importance of beginning human rights-inspired edu-
cation in early childhood “because an individual’s fundamental moral frame-
work is formed at a very young age.”8
A focus on family rights is also important because the family can be consid-
ered a microcosm of human society. The family is, as stated in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights, “the natural and fundamental group unit of soci-
ety” and the attitudes and practices of individuals within the family are often
carried into other relationships outside the home. The commencement of hu-
man rights promotion in the home is imperative, for individuals who do not
respect the rights of family members are unlikely to respect the rights of oth-
ers in the wider society. For this reason, family rights should be considered
within the broader context of the human family, as the following statement
from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá makes clear:
Compare the nations of the world to the members of a family. A family is a nation in
miniature. Simply enlarge the circle of the household and you have the nation. Enlarge the
circle of nations and you have all humanity. The conditions surrounding the family surround
the nation. The happenings in the family are the happenings in the life of the nation. Would
it add to the progress and advancement of a family if dissension should arise among its
members, fighting, pillaging each other, jealous and revengeful of injury, seeking selfish
advantage? Nay, this would be the cause of the effacement of progress and advancement.
So it is in the great family of nations, for nations are but an aggregate of families.9

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
Human Rights Provisions Relating to the Family
At first glance, it would appear that the seminal international human rights
document recognizes the cardinal role of the family in the promotion of human
rights. The Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that “[t]he family is
the natural and fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection
by society and the State.”10 An identical provision is also found in the Interna-
tional Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (hereafter ICCPR).11 A number of
other international human rights documents contain articles detailing the right
to formation and protection of families, such as the provisions stipulating
women’s right to access to information “to help ensure the health and well-
being of families”12, and women’s right to special protection during pregnancy.13
In addition, the Convention on the Rights of the Child contains several pro-
visions intended to protect the best interests of the child, including articles
stipulating that states “shall ensure to the maximum extent possible the survival
and development of the child.”14 A similar article is found in the ICCPR.15 Other
treaties relating to family rights include the Convention on Consent to Mar-
riage, Minimum Age for Marriage and Registration of Marriages, 1962.
As regards regional human rights documents, the African Charter on Human
and Peoples’ Rights (hereafter African Charter) includes a similar article to that
contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The family being, in
the words of the African Charter, “the natural unit and basis of society,”16 is
entitled to protection by the state, which “shall take care of its physical and
moral health.”17 This treaty is unique in its mention of the family’s role in main-
taining moral standards: it stipulates that the state has the duty “to assist the
family which is the custodian of morals and traditional values.”18
A common thread running through the aforementioned provisions is the ap-
parent emphasis on the duty of the state to protect the family; note that the role
of society is barely addressed. It will be recalled that the family’s entitlement
to protection by society as well as the state is mentioned in the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights. It is not, however, clear what precisely is meant
by “protection by society and the state,” to which the family is entitled. The
above-mentioned document states that women and men “are entitled to equal
rights as to marriage, during marriage and at its dissolution.”19 Ensuring that men
and women have equal rights during marriage can be regarded as protecting the
family; a corollary of this provision might be to state that only families in which
men and women have equal rights are entitled to protection by society and the
state. Strangely, however, international and regional human-rights provisions
relating to the family fail to mention the role of family members themselves in
protecting the family and do not address directly the rights and responsibili-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
ties of individuals within the home. This omission constitutes a great defi-
ciency in the majority of human rights documents.
Concerning protection of the family by the state, as mentioned in the Uni-
versal Declaration, the question may also arise as to whether such protection is
a right to which all families are entitled, including, for example, those in which
physical or emotional abuse is present. Admittedly, there is a danger that the
family’s right to “protection by the state” could be narrowly construed as pres-
ervation of a family in which the rights of some members are violated. Reluc-
tant to infringe on this family’s alleged right to privacy, the state may, citing the
aforementioned right to protection, decline to intervene in the affairs of a
family in which abuse is present. Clearly, the substantive content of the right to
protection of the family needs to be established. As will be shown in the next
section, the Bahá’í Teachings can offer some elucidation in this area of human
rights.
Bahá’í Principles Relating to Family Rights
The Oneness of Mankind
A fundamental principle of the Bahá’í Faith, which is applicable to family
life, is the oneness of mankind. The correlation between this principle and the
establishment of a just society in which everyone’s rights are respected is ex-
plained in the following statement from ‘Abdu’l-Bahá:
The second attribute of perfection is justice and impartiality… It means to consider the
welfare of the community as one’s own. It means, in brief, to regard humanity as a single
individual, and one’s own self as a member of that corporeal form, and to know of a
certainty that if pain or injury afflicts any members of that body, it must inevitably result in
suffering for all the rest.20
Seen in this perspective, in order for justice to prevail within the family,
every member would have to protect the rights of other members. But the
family is also to be viewed in a wider context as the human family whose unity
can be best achieved when every member of society protects the rights of
others. The reason for taking such a broad view of the family is that humanity is
not composed of self-contained families living in isolation; rather, individual
families are all part of an interrelated, interdependent and indivisible human-
ity. If, therefore, it is accepted that all human rights are interrelated, interde-
pendent and indivisible, as laid down in the Vienna Declaration and Programme
of Action (1993), and if human rights are rights that one has because one is a

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
human being, then humanity itself must be indivisible. The principle of the
oneness of mankind would, if applied to relations within as well as outside the
family, conduce to the “promotion of universal respect for and observation of
human rights and fundamental freedoms.”21
Family Unity
One of the fundamental principles of the Bahá’í Faith is the unity of human-
kind: “no power can exist except through unity,”22 Bahá’u’lláh has declared. Fur-
thermore, “harmony, unity and love are held up as the highest ideals in human
relationships,”23 and the Bahá’í Writings underscore the importance of family
unity in helping to usher in a just and unified world. Thus, for example, the
supreme administrative body of the Bahá’í Faith, the Universal House of Jus-
tice, has written, “Bahá’u’lláh came to bring unity to the world, and a fundamental
unity is that of the family.”24 He has also stated, as Shoghi Effendi has affirmed,
that “the purpose of marriage is to promote unity.”25 Therefore, the existence
of love and unity in any family is necessary for its progress whereas the “ill
effects of discord are so clearly apparent.”26 The correlation between family
unity and progress is also highlighted in this statement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá: “If love
and agreement are manifest in a single family, that family will advance, become
illumined and spiritual; but if enmity and hatred exist within it, destruction and
dispersion are inevitable.”27
If we accept the premise that the human family is composed of several in-
terdependent and interrelated families, then it follows that the conditions, of
harmony or disharmony within each family, can affect, and in turn be affected
by, conditions in the wider society. Similarly, if unity is conducive to progress
both of the individual family and the human family, and human rights are in-
tended to advance and not retard human development, then the individual has a
responsibility to create unity within his or her family.
Gender Equality
The principle of gender equality is an integral aspect of any discussion
regarding the relationship between men and women in the home. Although
husbands and wives have many responsibilities as well as rights, due to space
constraints, only a few will be examined here. The equality of women and men,
within the family and in the wider society, was explicitly proclaimed by
Bahá’u’lláh over 150 years ago and is repeatedly enunciated in the Bahá’í Writ-
ings. In fact, equality of the sexes is so crucial to the advancement of society that
‘Abdu’l-Bahá has declared that “[a]s long as women are prevented from attaining
their highest possibilities, so long will men be unable to achieve the greatness
which might be theirs.”28 It is now generally accepted in human rights discourse,

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
at least in principle, that denial of equality to women constitutes a human rights
violation. The unequal status of women in present-day society is highlighted in
the following statement by the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cul-
tural Organization (UNESCO):
Of all the violations of human rights, the most systematic, widespread and entrenched is
the denial of equality to women. Despite some progress in recent years, there is no
country in the world where women have achieved full equality. Although making up half or
more than half of the population, they are treated as a minority group, disadvantaged and
powerless.29
The above summation of the current global status of women is consistent
with the Bahá’í perspective, inasmuch as ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has stated, “the female
sex is treated as though inferior, and is not allowed equal rights and privi-
leges.”30 Such a situation is, however, untenable in the Bahá’í view for “divine
justice demands that the rights of both sexes should be equally respected.”31 It
is worth noting that the principle of equality applies to all social relationships
between men and women including, but not limited to, marriage. “According to
the spirit of this age,” ‘Abdu’l-Bahá has affirmed, “women must advance and
fulfill their mission in all departments of life, becoming equal to men.”32 To
demonstrate how the principle of equality might be applied to conjugal rela-
tions, some rights and responsibilities of women and men within the home
will now be considered.
Rights and Responsibilities of Family Members
It is evident from the Bahá’í Writings that rights and responsibilities are
inextricably linked and this correlation is a feature of family relations. Accord-
ing to the Universal House of Justice, “[t]he members of a family all have du-
ties and responsibilities towards one another and to the family as a whole, and
these duties and responsibilities vary from member to member because of
their natural relationships.”33 The rights and responsibilities of the husband,
wife and children will be discussed under three categories: rights of spouses,
rights of children and rights of parents.
Rights of Spouses
Freedom of Religion
Given that the relationship between husband and wife should be one of
equality, each spouse is entitled to choose his or her own religion indepen-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
dently of the other for Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, has
stated that “[no]body should trespass on the sacred bond every human being has
a right to have with their Creator.”34 It will be recalled that the right to freedom
of “thought, conscience and religion” is also enshrined in the Universal Decla-
ration of Human Rights.35 Freedom of religion is a fundamental right that should
be respected both in the context of family life and within society as a whole;
regrettably, however, many individuals have attempted to influence forcibly
the faith of other family members. In the event that a husband or wife seeks to
interfere with his or her spouse’s right to a religious affiliation, the one whose
right is thus challenged is advised, in the Bahá’í Writings, to use “conciliatory
and friendly means”36 to endeavor to win the other person’s sympathy. The
objective here is to preserve the unity of the family without ceding one’s fun-
damental right to freedom of religion.
Freedom of Opinion and Expression
Freedom of expression is, according to the Universal House of Justice, “a
fundamental principle”37 of the Bahá’í Cause. From this statement, and in light of
the Bahá’í principle of gender equality, it would be reasonable to conclude that
women and men in the family have the right to freedom of opinion and expres-
sion. But there is another argument in this connection. The principle of consul-
tation is a worthwhile method of seeking solutions, which is stressed by
Bahá’u’lláh; this principle applies to all human relationships and is so important
that “no welfare and no well-being can be attained except through consulta-
tion.”38 Indeed, Bahá’ís are urged to take no important step in their personal
affairs without prior consultation. When applied to the family context, the prin-
ciple of consultation allows for every member of the family to express “with
absolute freedom” 39 their own opinion and set forth their own argument “for
not until matters are fully discussed can the right way be revealed.”40 Although
this injunction was given by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá to the Bahá’í administrative institu-
tions, the Universal House of Justice has stated that consultation should not be
confined to the administrative institutions but should also be used within the
family.41 Therefore, both husband and wife have the right to hold and express
their opinions. Nevertheless, it is appropriate to note that, as is the case with
the majority of the rights enshrined in documents such as the International Bill
of Human Rights, there are conditions attached to the exercise of this right, in
the Bahá’í view.
For instance, although both spouses are entitled to express their opinions
during consultation, they should also “behave in the utmost love, harmony and
sincerity towards each other.”42 Mindful of the fact that the purpose of marriage
is to promote unity,43 and in view of Bahá’u’lláh’s teachings prohibiting unseemly

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
talk and unkind words, the right to freedom of opinion and expression must
only be exercised within marriage “in such wise that no occasion for ill-feel-
ing or discord may arise.”44 Again, while it has recommended the use of “full
and frank discussion” by spouses as “a panacea for domestic conflict,” the Uni-
versal House of Justice has also stressed that family consultation must be “ani-
mated by awareness of the need for moderation and balance.”45
However loving the consultation between spouses, there may be situations
where the wife and the husband cannot reach agreement. In such cases, how
should both parties’ rights to freedom of opinion and expression be recon-
ciled? Since there can be no majority vote in this situation, the Universal House
of Justice has stated that there are “times when a wife should defer to her
husband, and times when a husband should defer to his wife, but neither should
ever unjustly dominate the other.”46
Other Spousal Rights
The right to be free from abuse is enshrined in the Bahá’í Writings. The
Universal House of Justice has stated, “no husband should subject his wife to
abuse of any kind, whether emotional, mental or physical.”47 This injunction
should also be read mutatis mutandis, given the mutual respect and equality that
should govern relationships in the home. Interestingly, it would appear that
Bahá’u’lláh has assigned to men a special responsibility for ensuring that women
are not subjected to cruel behavior, as evidenced by the following statement:
The friends of God must be adorned with the ornament of justice, equity, kindness and
love. As they do not allow themselves to be the object of cruelty and transgression, in like
manner they should not allow such tyranny to visit the handmaidens of God.48
Rights of Children
In the Bahá’í view, children have a right to be educated by their parents, for
whom such education is “an inescapable duty”49. As the mother is the first edu-
cator and mentor of the child as well as the predominant influence in the child’s
early life, Bahá’u’lláh has stressed that where it is not possible to educate all of
one’s children, daughters have a prior right to education over sons. It is impor-
tant to note that education, in the Bahá’í view, encompasses both material and
spiritual components. As repeatedly stressed in the Bahá’í Writings, the task of
bringing up a child is “the chief responsibility of the mother” and in order to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
discharge this vital duty, the mother is entitled to be financially supported by
her husband. Nevertheless, as the Universal House of Justice has pointed out,
“the father also has the responsibility of educating his children, and this re-
sponsibility is so weighty that Bahá’u’lláh has stated that a father who fails to
exercise it forfeits his rights of fatherhood.”50
The foregoing should not, however, be construed as justification for an in-
flexible division of gender roles. On the contrary, such a reading would be
incorrect, as the Universal House of Justice has explained. The statement re-
garding the separate roles of mothers and fathers in no way implies that their
functions are “inflexibly fixed and cannot be changed and adjusted to suit par-
ticular family situations.”51 Rather, the Bahá’í Writings state explicitly that women
cannot be confined to the home but may be breadwinners.
In addition, children have a right, in the Bahá’í view, to be treated with
dignity. This principle does not, however, mean that they should not be sub-
jected to discipline; on the contrary, as the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith has
stated, discipline is “indeed indispensable.”52 Hence, parents are urged to coun-
sel and punish their children by using means based on reason but, as ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá has stated, “[i]t is not permissible to strike a child, or vilify him, for the
child’s character will be totally perverted if he be subjected to blows or verbal
abuse.”53
Another right accorded to children in the Bahá’í Writings is the right to
choose their own religion from the age of fifteen. 54 Up until this age, children
may be obliged to share the religious affiliations of their parents. But, as Shoghi
Effendi has stated, once children have reached the age of fifteen, they should
be given full freedom to choose their religion, “irrespective of the wishes and
desires of their parents.”55
Parental Rights
Since there can be no rights without responsibilities, children have certain
sacred duties toward their parents. One such obligation is that of obedience to
one’s parents—parents do not have to obey their children, in the Bahá’í view.
Great respect is due to one’s parents and Bahá’u’lláh has stated that, after the
recognition of the oneness of God, “the most important of all duties is to have
due regard for the rights of one’s parents.”56 He has also warned against the
commission of acts that would “sadden the hearts”57 of one’s parents; hence,
children have the responsibility to strive for the contentment of their parents.
To enable the fulfillment of this obligation, Bahá’u’lláh has enjoined parents to
“rear their children to be staunch in faith” since “a child who removeth himself

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
from the religion of God will not act in such a way as to win the good pleasure
of his parents and his Lord.”58
Children also have the responsibility, as is evident from the Bahá’í Writ-
ings, “to exert themselves to the utmost in acquiring the art of reading and
writing.”59 Hence, the right of children to be educated by their parents is closely
linked with the children’s duty to study assiduously “those branches of knowl-
edge which are of use.”60
Responsibilities of Individual Members to the Family Unit
It is evident from the foregoing that in addition to having rights and respon-
sibilities towards one another, the members of a family also have responsibili-
ties to the family unit. Individual family members have the duty to exercise
their rights in a manner that will be conducive to harmony, concord and unity in
the family, inasmuch as discord and dissension hinders the progress of a family
and, by extension, that of society as a whole. Since an environment of peace and
unity is necessary for the effective protection of human rights, the members of
a family have the duty to acquire moral virtues that will assist them to preserve
the unity of the family. The following statement by ‘Abdu’l-Bahá highlights the
importance of balancing individual rights and responsibilities against those of
the collective unit:
According to the teachings of Bahá’u’lláh the family, being a human unit, must be educated
according to the rules of sanctity. All the virtues must be taught the family. The integrity of
the family bond must be constantly considered, and the rights of the individual members
must not be transgressed. The rights of the son, the father, the mother—none of them must
be transgressed, none of them must be arbitrary. Just as the son has certain obligations to
his father, the father, likewise, has certain obligations to his son. The mother, the sister and
other members of the household have their certain prerogatives. All these rights and
prerogatives must be conserved, yet the unity of the family must be sustained. The injury
of one shall be considered the injury of all; the comfort of each, the comfort of all; the
honor of one, the honor of all.61
Conceptions of Family Rights: Contemporary and Bahá’í Views
A few similarities exist between the contemporary conception of family
rights and the Bahá’í perspective. First, as was previously mentioned, the fam-
ily is regarded as a fundamental unit of society both in the principal human

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
rights documents and in the Bahá’í Writings. Furthermore, in many human rights
documents and the Bahá’í Writings, it is acknowledged that women and men
have equal rights and that these rights should be equally respected. In addition,
the rights of children are considered important in the Bahá’í perspective and in
human rights treaties.
The differences between both conceptions are, however, striking. In the
first instance, human rights documents merely acknowledge, but do not elabo-
rate on, the fundamental nature of the family unit. The Bahá’í Writings, in con-
trast, explicate the interrelationship between the family and humanity as a whole
and this nexus underpins the Bahá’í conception of human rights.
Furthermore, as regards the recognition of women’s rights to equality and
the rights of the child in contemporary human rights discourse, this is markedly
different from the Bahá’í conception. The vast majority of human rights instru-
ments tend to stress the rights of the individual while down playing the re-
sponsibilities that come with the exercise of such rights. For instance, the “right
to marry and to found a family”62 is proclaimed in the International Bill of
Human Rights but there is no mention, in that document or any other, of the
responsibilities of the parties to the marriage. An exceptional human rights
treaty is the African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights as it also includes a
section on duties, stipulating for example, that the individual has the duty to
respect his or her parents at all times.63 In contrast to the dissociation of rights
from responsibilities in most human rights documents relating to the family,
recognition of an indissoluble link between rights and responsibilities of fam-
ily members is integral to the Bahá’í perspective of family rights.
The Bahá’í view also differs from current conceptions of family rights in
another respect. There is a tendency, in contemporary human rights discourse,
to view family rights as a collection of discrete rights belonging to atomistic
individuals who have few responsibilities towards anyone other than them-
selves. On this view, every member of the family (mother, father or child)
would have innumerable rights which are held against other family members,
yet little thought is given to family relationships and how they might be influ-
enced by the exercise of individual members’ rights. The Bahá’í Writings, in
contrast, stress the correlation between rights and responsibilities in the fam-
ily and enumerate the rights and responsibilities of each member. Moreover,
in the Bahá’í view, “the integrity of the family must be constantly considered”64
inasmuch as “harmony, unity and love are held up as the highest ideals in human
relationships.”65 Of course, this insistence on family unity should not be con-
strued as a negation of the rights of individual members, since the Bahá’í Writ-
ings make it clear that the rights and prerogatives of every family member must
be sustained.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
Reconceptualizing Human Rights to Protect the Family
As earlier mentioned, a number of human rights documents state that the
family is the fundamental group unit of society and is entitled to protection by
the state and society. But how does the state and society protect the family? This
question remains largely unanswered in most human rights documents; in fact, it
would appear that the family has been relegated to the background in contem-
porary human rights discourse.
The effective protection of the family—ensuring the proper exercise of
rights and discharge of responsibilities within the unit—necessitates a funda-
mental transformation in the current conceptual framework of human rights. It
should be noted that this article does not purport to enumerate all of the con-
ceptual innovations that would be required: only a few of these will be dis-
cussed. Our understanding of human rights is far from perfect and will continue
to evolve, and the role of all sectors of society in broadening and deepening
the human rights discourse cannot be overemphasized. A few changes in current
conceptions are here proposed.
Legal and State-centrist Approaches
Inimical to the protection of the family is the predominant perception of
human rights as a relentless struggle between the individual and the state whose
actions must be restrained by the enactment and implementation of suitable
laws. Within the current state-centered paradigm of human rights, the family,
composed as it is of “ordinary” individuals interacting with one another, is
considered largely irrelevant in the vast scheme of things. The adversarial and
legalistic approach to human rights is also unlikely to conduce to protection of
the family since, according to this school of thought, individuals are pitted against
each other or against the state in a fierce struggle to assert their rights. When
the individual members of a family all claim rights held against each other and
invoke human rights legal principles in a court of law, without seriously con-
sidering their responsibilities towards each other, such actions threaten family
unity. Rather than foster an atmosphere in which family members respect and
protect each other’s rights, the adversarial paradigm is likely to encourage dis-
sension and disharmony within the family.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
Human Rights Education
The vital role of education in the effective promotion and protection of
human rights is explicitly acknowledged in the Universal Declaration. In this
document, the United Nations General Assembly has proclaimed, “every indi-
vidual and every organ of society, keeping this Declaration constantly in mind,
shall strive by teaching and education to promote respect for these rights and
freedoms.”66 The importance of education in the promotion of human rights
was further underscored when the General Assembly, in its resolution of 23
December 1994, proclaimed a United Nations Decade for Human Rights Edu-
cation (1995-2004).
In the Bahá’í view, human rights education is not merely a theoretical knowl-
edge of laws and institutional mechanisms for implementing human rights. It is
essential that a moral component be incorporated into human rights education
thus linking respect for rights with human virtues such as compassion, justice,
truthfulness and courtesy. For, even more important than familiarity with the
principles of international human rights law in determining one’s respect for
others’ rights, is the possession of moral qualities. These qualities constitute,
essentially, a strong motivational force in human behavior. But stressing the
importance of moral education does not mean that the force of law must not be
respected; rather, the intention here is to advocate for a holistic and less mate-
rialistic view of human rights. This important subject encompasses fields other
than the law, such as political science, philosophy, and medical ethics. The ab-
stract notion of rights proclaimed in countless international and regional docu-
ments—and here one is reminded of Jeremy Bentham’s dismissal of rights as
“rhetorical nonsense” or “nonsense on stilts”—will not be translated into real-
ity unless and until a deeper understanding of human rights pervades every
sector of humanity.
Materialistic Foundations
A review of past and contemporary texts on the subject reveals that the
foundations of human rights have always been, and continue to be, disputed.
Theories of rights abound in the literature and myriad arguments have been
advanced in support of various schools of thought. These often-conflicting theo-
ries will not be enumerated or analyzed here. The point of this section is to
propose that essential religious truths, but not sectarian dogmas, be re-incor-
porated into the rights discourse in order to establish human rights on a solid
and transcendent foundation and ensure a truly universal culture of human rights.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
The contemporary human rights movement is undeniably rooted in liberal
Western thought which can be traced back to the seventeenth century. In the
early stages of its development, human rights or “natural rights,” as the concept
was then known, were regarded as rights given to humankind by God and the
spiritual nature of human beings was not denied. Subsequently, however, the
human rights movement moved gradually away from its religious associations
and adopted an increasingly materialistic approach. Starting with the adoption
of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in 1948, any explicit mention of
God was effectively erased from the human rights discourse. Thus, many human
rights documents proclaim lofty principles67 that are clearly grounded in secu-
lar and strongly contested values.
The disconnection of human rights from religion has resulted in an overem-
phasis on the adoption of materialistic measures to promote and protect human
rights. Hence, an inordinate amount of time and effort is devoted to formulat-
ing and promulgating treaties and declarations, enacting laws, naming and sham-
ing governments that violate the rights of their citizens, and devising a variety
of human rights machinery. Short shrift has been given to the role of religion in
instilling the requisite moral values in human beings, values that alone can mo-
tivate the individual to protect the rights of others. For religion, Bahá’u’lláh has
declared, is “the chief instrument for order in the world and of tranquillity
among its peoples.”68 In a similar vein, it is clear from the Bahá’í Writings that
human rights are bestowed on humankind by God and not by the state. The
importance of recognizing the divine source of human rights and the limitations
of even the most powerful states in protecting human rights is acknowledged in
the following excerpt from A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Rights and Obliga-
tions:
“The source of human rights is the endowment of qualities, virtues and powers which God
has bestowed upon mankind without discrimination of sex, race, creed or nation. To fulfill
the possibilities of this divine endowment is the purpose of human existence.…
“The social body does not create essential human rights. Its office is that of trustee under
appointment to act for the community in the preservation of the relationships which
represent the moral achievement of the members, and to cherish and protect that unity of
spirit which is their highest mutual obligation.
No social body, whatever its form, has power to maintain essential human rights for
persons who have repudiated their moral obligation and abandoned the divine endow-
ment distinguishing man from beast.…
“An ordered society can only be maintained by moral beings.” 69

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
Conclusion
The international human rights movement has undoubtedly made great strides
since its early origins in Western liberal thought. Thus, for example, the insti-
tution of slavery, which was considered acceptable in past centuries, is today
regarded as a violation of human rights and a major document announces that
“[a]ll human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights.”70 Notwith-
standing the incontrovertible achievements of the human rights movement, ex-
emplified by the promulgation of various documents, and the formulation of a
variety of monitoring and implementation mechanisms, the human rights dis-
course appears to be stuck in an adversarial and state-centered paradigm in
which the individual is pitted against the state. This narrow and obsolescent
conception of human rights is manifestly inadequate. Today, human-rights dis-
course needs to evolve beyond its Western liberal origins to include an aware-
ness of the oneness of humankind, recognition of the importance of moral
education and the role of the family in the promotion and protection of human
rights. It is not sufficient to promulgate detailed and authoritative statements of
rights, invoke these rights in cases before national and international courts, or
discuss human rights issues in high-profile international fora.
Urgently needed is for universal human rights to be actualized, in order that
they may truly be a “common standard of achievement for all peoples and all
nations,” as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights purports to be. To this
end, the field of human rights must no longer be considered the preserve of
lawyers, politicians, academics, nongovernmental organizations or high-pro-
file political dissidents; rather, human-rights protection must begin within the
family unit. A focus on the rights and responsibilities of the family is an integral
component of human rights protection. Due recognition ought to be given to the
family for its potential to foster an environment in which values favorable to
human rights can be inculcated and applied. For in the final analysis, to foster a
truly universal human rights culture in the world, human rights must be brought
home to the family.
Footnotes
Donnelly, J. (1989). Universal Human Rights in Theory and Practice . Ithaca, NY and London:
Cornell University Press. p. 9.
Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 16 (3).
ibid. Preamble.
Donnelly. p. 21.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (2000). Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. In Writings and Utterances of
‘Abdu’l-Bahá. New Delhi, India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 461.
The nuclear family is the model referred to in the Bahá’í Writings.
See Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 1 (3).
Bahá’í International Community (1997). Human Rights Education: An External Affairs Initiative.
Unpublished paper. ch. 18, p. 3.
‘Abdu’l-Bahá (2000). Promulgation of Universal Peace . In Writings and Utterances of ‘Abdu’l-
Bahá.  p. 940.
10 See note 2.
11 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 23 (1)
12 Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, 1979. Article 10 (h).
13 ibid. Article 11 (d).
14 Convention on the Rights of the Child, 1989. Article 6 (2).
15 International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights. Article 24.
16 African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights, 1981. Article 18 (1).
17 ibid.
18 ibid. Article 18 (2).
19 ibid. Article 16 (1).
20 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1990). The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 39.
See Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Preamble.
Bahá’u’lláh quoted in Bahá’í International Community (1995). The Prosperity of Humankind. Lon-
don: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 16.
Shoghi Effendi, from a letter written on his behalf, quoted in Hornby, H. (1996). Lights of
Guidance. New Delhi, India: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 222.
24 Universal House of Justice, letter to an individual believer, quoted in Hornby. p. 221.
Shoghi Effendi, from a letter written on his behalf to an individual believer, quoted in National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada (1983). Bahá’í Marriage and Family Life. Thornhill,
Canada: Bahá’í Publications Canada. p. 41.
26 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, The Promulgation of Universal Peace . p. 1004.
27 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace . p. 929.
28 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1995). Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p.136.
29 UNESCO (1980). Many Voices, One World. Paris: UNSECO. p. 189.
30 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. p. 169.
31 ibid. p. 171.
32 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Esslemont, J. (1970). Bahá’u’lláh and the New Era. www.ibiblio.org/
Bahai/Texts/EN/BNE/BNE-117.html.
33 Universal House of Justice, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada.
Bahá’í Marriage and Family Life. p. 57.
34 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Bahá’í Marriage
and Family Life. p. 40.
35 Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 18.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
36 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Bahá’í Marriage
and Family Life. p. 40.
37 Universal House of Justice (1989). Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh,
a Statement to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. p. 24.
38 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Bahá’í International Community. The Prosperity of Humankind. p. 16.
39 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 344.
40 ibid.
41 Universal House of Justice, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada.
Bahá’í Marriage and Family Life. p. 36.
42 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Bahá’í International Community. Extracts from the Bahá’í  Writings on
Consultation. www.bahai.org/article-1-3-6-6.html.
43 See note 25.
44 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 344.
45 Universal House of Justice, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada.
Bahá’í Marriage and Family Life. p. 36.
46 ibid. p. 60.
47 Univeral House of Justice, quoted in Universal House of Justice (1990). Preserving Bahá’í
Marriages. www.commonlink.com/~drc/index/mar/pres/blpres1.htm.
48 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Bahá’í  International Community (30 January-10 March 1995) Ending Vio-
lence Against Women. Presented to the 51st session of the United Nations Commission on
Human Rights, Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International Community Document #95-0201).
49 Universal House of Justice, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada.
Bahá’í Marriage and Family Life. p. 57.
50 ibid. p. 59.
51 Universal House of Justice, quoted in Hornby. p. 627.
52 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Bahá’í Marriage
and Family Life. p. 51.
53 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. p. 364.
54 Fifteen is considered the age of spiritual maturity in the Bahá’í view.
55 Shoghi Effendi, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Bahá’í Marriage
and Family Life. p. 52.
56 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of Canada. Bahá’í Marriage and
Family Life. p. 53.
57 ibid.
58 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Universal House of Justice. A Compilation on Bahá’í Education.
www.bcca.org/~kalantar/writings/compilations/bahai.edu/dir-piece-3/sec-13.html.
59 ibid. www.bcca.org/~kalantar/writings/compilations/bahai.edu/dir-piece-3/sec-19.html.
60 Bahá’u’lláh (1978). Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 69.
61 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. The Promulgation of Universal Peace . pp. 949-950.
62 See Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Article 16 (1); International Covenant on Civil and
Political Rights. Article 23 (2).

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Bringing Rights Home
63 African Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights. Adopted by the Organization of African Unity in
1981. Article 29 (1).
64 ibid.
65 See note 25.
66 See last paragraph of the Preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
67 See for example Article 1 of the Universal Declaration: “All human beings are born free and equal
in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one
another in a spirit or brotherhood.”
68 Bahá’u’lláh. Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. pp. 63-64.
69 Bahá’í International Community (February 1947) A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and
Rights. Presented to the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
Lake Success, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #47-0200).
70 Article 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral
Development, and the Global Campaign
to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
BY MICHAEL L. PENN
Across the planet, and over the centuries, various forms of violence against
women and girls have been an everyday part of humanity’s social life. In the
middle of the nineteenth century, however, a movement bent on eradicating
gender-related abuses and uplifting the station of women burst upon the world.
Among the progenitors of this movement were two women, one from the East,
the other from the West.
At a time and in a country in which women were denied the most basic
rights, the Persian poetess, Qurratu’l-‘Ayn (also known as Táhirih) openly pro-
claimed the equality of the sexes in a gathering of followers of the Bábí Faith.
In the 1840s, in symbolic representation of one of the many new teachings she
had embraced, Táhirih became the first Middle-Eastern woman ever reported
to have removed her veil in public. A social history of the period captures the
reactions she provoked as she presented herself—“adorned and unveiled”—
before a company of men at a gathering known as the Conference of Badasht:
…suddenly the figure of Táhirih, adorned and unveiled, appeared before the eyes of the
assembled companions. Consternation immediately seized the entire gathering. All stood
aghast before this sudden and most unexpected apparition. To behold her face unveiled
was to them inconceivable. Even to gaze at her shadow was a thing which they deemed
improper.… Quietly, silently, and with utmost dignity, Táhirih stepped forward and, ad-
vancing towards Quddús, seated herself on his right-hand side. Her unruffled serenity
sharply contrasted with the affrighted countenances of those who were gazing upon her
face. Fear, anger, and bewilderment stirred the depths of their souls. That sudden revela-
tion seemed to have stunned their faculties. ‘Abdu’l-Kháliq-i-Isfáhání was so gravely shaken
that he cut his throat with his own hands. Covered with blood and shrieking with excite-
ment, he fled away from the face of Táhirih. A few, following his example, abandoned

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
their companions and forsook their Faith. A number were seen standing speechless before
her, confounded with wonder.1
In 1848, when the authorities could no longer abide either the new spiritual
teachings that she championed or the remarkable social audacity she displayed,
they arranged for Táhirih’s execution. As the hour of her death approached, she
calmly noted, “`You can kill me as soon as you like, but you cannot stop the
emancipation of women.’”2 In that same year—in Seneca Falls, New York—
Elizabeth Cady Stanton, joined by one man, Frederick Douglass, and a company
of inspired women, initiated the women’s movement in the West.
Stanton’s oration at the opening of the Seneca Falls Convention was no less
memorable than Táhirih’s bold unveiling at the Conference of Badasht. On
Wednesday, 19 July 1848, Stanton arose and addressed the assembled delegates:
…Verily, the world waits the coming of some new element, some purifying power, some
spirit of mercy and love. The voice of woman has been silenced in the state, the church,
and the home, but man cannot fulfill his destiny alone, he cannot redeem his race un-
aided.… The world has never seen a truly great and virtuous nation, because in the degra-
dation of woman the very fountains of life are poisoned at their source. It is vain to look for
silver and gold from mines of copper and lead. It is the wise Mother that has the wise son.
So long as your women are slaves you may throw your colleges and churches to the
winds.… Truly are the sins of the fathers visited upon the children to the third and fourth
generation. God, in his wisdom, has so linked the whole human family together that any
violence done at one end of the chain is felt throughout its length, and here, too, is the law
of restoration, as in woman all have fallen, so in her elevation shall the race be recreated.3
Although the women’s movement would enjoy several impressive victories
in the decades following the momentous events in Persia and in Seneca Falls, it
would take more than a full century before efforts to eradicate gender-based
violence would begin to capture the attention of the world. The processes
contributing to the globalization of this campaign can be traced to the founding
of the United Nations in June 1945; to the creation of the Commission on Hu-
man Rights in February 1946 and of the Commission on the Status of Women in
June of that same year; and to the adoption of the Universal Declaration of
Human Rights in December 1948. The goal of this paper is to review some of
the most significant developments in human rights law designed to contribute
to the advancement of women and the eradication of gender-based violence. It
is suggested that while the movement to date has won many impressive victo-
ries, the global campaign to eradicate gender-based violence and to improve
the overall status of women and girls is significantly impaired by the neglect of

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
the characterological, moral and spiritual dimensions of the individual and of
the society that must be attended to if law is to serve as a vehicle for the
promotion of justice, the protection of women’s rights and the creation of a
culture of peace. And while it is true that in the most recent past NGOs and
other institutions that are concerned with the well-being of women and girls
have begun to give attention to the psycho-spiritual dimensions of discrimina-
tion and gender-based violence, overall, these aspects continue to receive far
less attention than would be warranted by their importance.
The Globalization of the Effort to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
The establishment of the United Nations’ Commission on the Status of Women
was among the most significant early developments in the globalization of the
women’s movement. At its inaugural meeting, held in February 1947, the Com-
mission resolved to work “to raise the status of women, irrespective of nation-
ality, race, language or religion,” to establish “equality with men in all fields of
human enterprise, and to eliminate all discrimination against women in the
provision of statutory law, in legal maxims or rules, or in interpretations of
customary law.”4 As significant and far reaching as these goals were, no mention
was made about the need to eliminate sexual and/or physical violence against
women and girls. It would take several more decades before this problem
would receive sustained international public attention and be adopted as a sig-
nificant concern of the world body.
Nevertheless, one of the earliest and most important accomplishments of
the Commission on the Status of Women—an accomplishment that would ulti-
mately prove vital to the campaign to eradicate gender-based violence—was
the Commission’s influence on shaping the language of the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights. Upon the Commission’s insistence, the Declaration, which
was adopted in Paris on 10 December 1948 by unanimous vote, was divested of
its gender-insensitive language and tailored to affirm, explicitly, the equality
of women and men.5 The Preamble to the Declaration sets the tone by affirming
the UN’s commitment to the equality of the sexes: “the peoples of the United
Nations have in the Charter reaffirmed their faith in fundamental human rights,
in the dignity and worth of the human person and in the equal rights of men and
women.”
Another significant step in advancing women’s human rights was taken in
1952 when the UN General Assembly adopted the Convention on the Political
Rights of Women. Entered into force in 1954, this Convention was the first
instrument of international law framed specifically for the protection of the
political rights of women everywhere. It provides that the women of the world,

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
whatever their homeland, are entitled to vote in any election, run for any po-
litical office, exercise any public function, and hold any public position that a
man may hold.
In the areas of work and education, the Commission on the Status of Women
also began to gain an appreciation for the impact of inequality on women’s qual-
ity of life. Near the end of the 1940s it collaborated with the International
Labour Organization on women’s economic rights. The fruit of that collabora-
tion was the inclusion in the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights of an
article (Article 23) specifying that everyone, without discrimination, has the
right to equal pay for equal work. The Commission also collaborated with
UNESCO (United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organization)
in developing basic educational programs that would afford women and girls
the same access to education that is provided to men and boys. Although great
disparities in access to education continue in many countries, this early work
brought to the United Nations a consciousness of the importance of education
to women’s advancement.
Since the right to nationality is the political basis for many other rights, and
since many national laws require that married women automatically take their
husband’s nationality, international human-rights observers noted that this tradi-
tion left many women vulnerable to losing their own nationality without their
consent. Divorced women, or women who chose to leave their husbands, were
particularly vulnerable to becoming stateless. Recognizing this vulnerability,
the Commission on the Status of Women completed a draft treaty on the nation-
ality rights of married women and in 1955 submitted it to the UN General
Assembly. The Convention on the Nationality of Married Women provided
for the right of a woman to retain her nationality if she so desired, even if her
nationality would be different from that of her husband. Although the Conven-
tion was approved in 1957, and the treaty came into force in 1958, the resistance
of some governments to many of the treaty provisions signaled the difficulties
that would attend any effort to secure nationality rights for women that were
independent of that of their husbands.6
A second measure adopted by the United Nations relating to marriage was
the Convention and Recommendation on Consent to Marriage, Minimum Age
for Marriage and Registration of Marriages. Adopted by the General Assembly
in November 1962, and entered into force in December 1964, the convention
was necessary because of the widespread practice of forced child marriage. It
requires that no marriage take place without the full and free consent of both
parties but leaves it to individual governments to determine the minimum age
at which one may enter into a marriage. With the exception of provisions in the
Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (1967), and

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women
(1979), the agreements framed between 1955 and 1962 constitute all the interna-
tional agreements entered into by the United Nations related to women’s rights
in marriage.7
In the 1950s the Commission on the Status of Women began to express res-
ervations about what amounted to violence perpetrated against women in the
name of customary law, religious practices, and traditional ceremonies. Such
traditional practices—which include female genital circumcision, virginity tests,
dowry and widow burnings, and early childhood marriages—were brought to
the attention of Member States who were encouraged to “take immediately all
necessary measures with a view to abolishing.… all customs which violate the
physical integrity of women, and which thereby violate the dignity and worth of
the human person as proclaimed in the Charter and in the Universal Declara-
tion of Human Rights.”8 In the General Assembly the response of Member
States was mixed. Some maintained that only a gradual process of education
could lead to the eradication of such practices; some suggested that the effort to
abolish traditional practices was in violation of the UN Charter, which pro-
scribes interference in the domestic affairs of Member States; others felt that
traditional practices that compromise the health and well-being of women and
girls should be abolished.
When the World Health Organization refused to undertake a study on the
effects of genital circumcision for the Commission on the Status of Women, the
question of the adverse effects of traditional practices on the well-being of
women and girls was abandoned for approximately twenty years and did not
become a focus of international attention again until the UN’s International
Women’s Year in 1975.9 In 1979 the World Health Organization sponsored a
seminar on Traditional Practices Affecting the Health of Women and Children,
but strong efforts to eradicate such practices did not begin to gain momentum
until the mid-1980s when a growing number of individuals and organizations,
both within and outside of the human rights community, began to consider fe-
male genital circumcision a form of gender-based violence. Such practices, a
growing number of voices began to insist, could no longer be justified in the
name of the sanctity of culture, religion, or tradition.
During the 1960s and 1970s, as former African colonies began to seize their
independence, the number and diversity of Member States at the United Na-
tions grew dramatically. In addition, the economic and social consequences of
centuries of oppression and injustice had crippled the human and material re-
sources of many colonized nations and had begun to present acute threats to the
lives of millions of people—particularly of women and girls—throughout the
developing world. For this reason the survival-related concerns of women in

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
developing countries began to eclipse the UN’s earlier focus on securing
women’s legal rights.
Concurrently, the economic and health-related problems associated with
the emergence of fledgling nations from colonial rule served to awaken the
Commission on the Status of Women to the disproportionate impact of poverty
and inequality on the lives of women and girls:
The work of the Commission on the Status of Women in the 1960s and 1970s thus began
to take it beyond the negotiating tables in New York and Geneva and into the fields and
rice paddies of the developing world. Such issues as women’s needs in community and
rural development, agricultural work, family planning and the impact of scientific and
technological advances on women became increasingly prominent in the Commission’s
work. This was the first step in a growing perception among United Nations bodies con-
cerned with development, that the Charter’s promise to ‘promote social progress and
better the standards of life in larger freedom’ could not be met without the full participa-
tion of women in society.10
Realizing the grass-roots needs of so many of the world’s women, the Eco-
nomic and Social Council, along with the General Assembly, called upon gov-
ernments to turn to the United Nations for technical assistance in their
development efforts. In addition, organizations within the UN system—such as
the United Nations Children’s Fund and the United Nations Development
Programme—were asked to give special attention to the social and economic
advancement of women in the developing countries.
In an effort to highlight women’s vital role in national and international de-
velopment, and with a view to promoting the equality of men and women in the
international arena, the Commission on the Status of Women recommended that
1975 be designated International Women’s Year. The General Assembly not
only endorsed this recommendation but suggested that, in addition to the themes
of development and equality, International Women’s Year be used to heighten
awareness of the importance of women in promoting world peace.
Perhaps the most significant event of International Women’s Year was the
first global conference on women’s issues ever to be held. The conference
took place in June 1975 in Mexico City. Delegations, 113 of them headed by
women, from more than 133 Member States were present. According to a his-
tory of the advancement of women, the UN’s Secretary-General, in his opening
remarks to the assembled delegates, observed that the conference in Mexico
City was “the first major step in a worldwide attempt to achieve equality be-
tween men and women and to end separation of the sexes in matters of educa-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
tion, opportunities and economic priorities.”11 At the close of the conference
the delegates adopted the Declaration of Mexico on the Equality of Women
and Their Contribution to Development and Peace. The Declaration specified
a set of principles that stress the role of women in promoting and maintaining
peace in all spheres of life, including the family, the community, the nation, and
the international arena.
The World Plan of Action for the Implementation of the Objectives of the Interna-
tional Women’s Year was also drafted at the Mexico City conference. This docu-
ment specified three main objectives: to promote gender equality; to facilitate
the integration of women in all development efforts; and to strengthen the
contribution of women to the global movement for world peace. Although the
Plan left it to each country to specify the means whereby these objectives were
to be met, it also outlined minimum goals to be achieved by 1980, the mid-
point of the Decade for Women, which would begin in 1976. These goals in-
cluded efforts combating problems affecting female migrant workers, female
prisoners, and women and girls forced into prostitution; achieving equality of
access to education for women at all levels of schooling; increasing employ-
ment opportunities for women throughout the world; passing laws to ensure
greater participation by women in politics and governance; and making signifi-
cant improvements in women’s access to adequate nutrition, housing, health care
and family planning.
The United Nations declared the period between 1976 and 1985 the UN
Decade for Women. During this period the women’s international human-rights
movement re-emerged as a major concern and began to gather renewed sup-
port and unprecedented momentum. The adoption in 1979 of the Convention on
the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women, together with
international women’s conferences in Copenhagen, Denmark, in 1980 and in
Nairobi, Kenya, in 1985, not only brought women’s issues to the fore but began
to strengthen the effectiveness of nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) that
were moving to the forefront in the effort to promote the advancement of
women. Such organizations began to link violence and discrimination against
women to a variety of national and international crises, including war,
homelessness, illiteracy, poverty, malnutrition, overpopulation, poor health,
and high rates of infant mortality. As a result of their growing strength and
effectiveness, NGOs began to transform the United Nations into a world body
that is not only responsive to the needs and wishes of governments but that is
also receptive to policy recommendations and guidance from the grass roots.
The Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women, an
important action taken during the UN Decade for Women, was adopted by the
United Nations General Assembly on 18 December 1979 and entered into force

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
as an international treaty on 3 September 1981. Since its adoption, more than 150
nations have agreed to be bound by its provisions.
The spirit and objectives of the Convention are animated by the same vision
and goals that gave birth to the United Nations: “to reaffirm faith in fundamental
human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, in the equal rights of
men and women.”12 As an international treaty, the Convention accomplishes two
major objectives. First, it establishes an international bill of rights for women
and specifies a set of actions to be taken by the nations of the world to ensure
that these rights are enjoyed. Second, it mandates the establishment of the Com-
mittee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW), which
is charged with ensuring that the provisions of the Convention are observed.
The notion of gender equality as defined in the Convention is not theoreti-
cal but practical. Its goal, as specified in Article 1 and elaborated in Articles 2
through 30, is to effect equality rather than provide an abstract definition of it.
The Convention seeks to establish gender equality by prohibiting all forms of
discrimination against women and by defining discrimination as “any distinc-
tion, exclusion or restriction made on the basis of sex which has the effect or
purpose of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise by
women, irrespective of their marital status, on a basis of equality of men and
women, human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, so-
cial, cultural, civil or any other field.”13
Articles 2 through 30 of the Convention require signatories both to con-
demn all forms of discrimination against women and to “pursue by all appro-
priate means and without delay” such policies as would result in the elimination
of existing discriminatory practices.14 Steps to be taken to fulfill the Conven-
tion include: embodying the principle of equality of men and women in all
national constitutions or other appropriate legislation; adopting legislative
measures that prohibit and sanction all discrimination against women; estab-
lishing legal protection of the rights of women on an equal basis with men;
actively involving signatories in the elimination of discrimination against women
by any person, organization, or enterprise; modifying or abolishing existing
laws, regulations, customs, and practices that constitute discrimination against
women; and repealing all national penal provisions that constitute discrimina-
tion against women.
Articles of the Convention also require States Parties to take appropriate
measures to ensure the full development and advancement of women in all
fields of endeavor; to modify those social and cultural practices that are based
on the idea of the inferiority or superiority of either of the sexes or that
promote stereotyped roles for women or men; and to adopt special measures

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
aimed at protecting maternity, specifying that such measures “shall not be con-
sidered discriminatory.”15 The Convention proscribes all forms of prostitu-
tion, sexual exploitation, and trafficking in women and seeks to ensure that
women enjoy equal rights with men in the exercise of political freedom and
the freedom to participate in all forms of public life.
States Parties are urged in the Convention to grant women equal rights with
men to acquire, change, or retain their nationality upon marriage or divorce.
The Convention grants women equal rights with men to establish the nationality
of their children. The rights of women to enjoy equal access to education and
employment are affirmed, while all discriminatory practices in the field of
health care are abrogated, including discriminatory access to health-care ser-
vices and family planning. Particular problems faced by rural women are ad-
dressed, and signatories are mandated to ensure that rural women participate
fully in, and benefit from, all development. Several Articles of the Convention
require States Parties to accord women full equality with men before the law
and establish that women and men shall enjoy the same rights within marriage
and family life. Part 5 of the Convention, which includes Articles 17 through 30,
is concerned with establishing mechanisms through which the provisions of the
Convention are to be adopted, monitored, and enforced.
The adoption of the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against
Women was a major action during the UN Decade for Women. But at the
Copenhagen Conference, which took place in 1980 at the mid-point of the United
Nations Decade for Women, it became clear to the delegates that the goals
articulated in Mexico City could never be achieved by laws alone. Many rec-
ognized that, without a sustained measure of grass-roots social action and with-
out a high level of political commitment, the goals were just that—goals.
Following Copenhagen, at least some of the focus of the movement for the
advancement of women began to be concentrated on mobilizing more effec-
tively at the grass roots. In addition to concentrating on grass-roots efforts, one
of the most important developments of the Copenhagen Conference would be
little noticed: Some of the delegates began to discuss the lack of involvement
of men in improving the status and role of women in society.
The third global conference on women was held in 1985 in Nairobi at the
end of the UN Decade for Women. At that conference, and at the preparatory
conference that took place in Vienna the preceding year, delegates agreed that
the goals for the second half of the Decade for Women had not been achieved.
However, the experience gained in international consultation at the two previ-
ous conferences generated a spirit of confidence and optimism that united the
hearts of the delegates in ways that the previous conferences had failed to do.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
When they left Nairobi, many did so with a profound sense of sisterhood and
solidarity that cut across traditional lines of race, class, and culture.
The second major accomplishment of the Nairobi Conference was the clear
emergence of a consensus among the delegates that gender-based violence
would have to be addressed as a human-rights issue in the international legal
and political arenas. The major document coming out of that Conference—the
Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the Advancement of Women—noted
that:
Violence against women exists in various forms in everyday life in all societies. Women
are beaten, mutilated, burned, sexually abused and raped. Such violence is a major ob-
stacle to the achievement of peace and the other objectives of the Decade and should be
given special attention. Women victims of violence should be given particular attention
and comprehensive assistance. To this end, legal measures should be formulated to pre-
vent violence and to assist women victims. National machineries should be established in
order to deal with the question of violence against women within the family and society.
Preventive policies should be elaborated, and institutionalized forms of assistance to
women provided.16
The call raised at the Nairobi conference for addressing gender-based vio-
lence began to bear fruit. In May 1990, the UN’s Economic and Social Council
recognized that gender-based violence in the family and society “is pervasive
and cuts across lines of income, class and culture.” “Efforts to eradicate it,” the
Council noted, “must be matched by urgent and effective steps…” The Council
called upon governments to take immediate and decisive steps to establish
appropriate penalties for violence against women, as well as to reduce its
impact in the family, the workplace, and society.17
In 1992 the Committee on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women
(CEDAW) moved to rectify the omission in 1979 of gender-based violence
from the Convention of the same name. At its eleventh session, CEDAW re-
solved to include gender-based violence under the rubric of gender-based
discrimination. Gender-based discrimination, according to CEDAW, is “vio-
lence which is directed against a woman because she is a woman or which
affects women disproportionately. It includes acts which inflict physical, men-
tal or sexual harm or suffering, threats of such acts, coercion, and other depriva-
tion of liberty.” CEDAW went further to request that States Parties undertake
appropriate and effective measures to end all forms of gender-based violence,
whether such violence be by public or private act.18

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
Joining the voices raised against gender-based violence is the Vienna Dec-
laration and Programme of Action, adopted by the World Conference on Hu-
man Rights, held in Vienna, Austria, in June 1993. Part I, paragraph 18, of that
document, addresses violence against women:
The human rights of women and of the girl-child are an inalienable, integral and indivisible
part of universal human rights. The full and equal participation of women in political, civil,
economic, social and cultural life, at the national, regional and international levels, and the
eradication of all forms of discrimination on grounds of sex are priority objectives of the
international community. Gender based violence and all forms of sexual harassment and
exploitation, including those resulting from cultural prejudice and international trafficking,
are incompatible with the dignity and worth of the human person, and must be elimi-
nated.19
Part II, paragraph 38, continues:
The World Conference on Human Rights stresses the importance of working towards the
elimination of violence against women in public and private life, the elimination of all
forms of sexual harassment, exploitation and trafficking in women, the elimination of
gender bias in the administration of justice and the eradication of any conflicts which may
arise between the rights of women and the harmful effects of certain traditional or cus-
tomary practices, cultural prejudices and religious extremism.20
In 1993 the UN Declaration on the Elimination of Violence against Women—
adopted by the General Assembly at its forty-eighth session on 20 December
1993—became the first international human-rights instrument designed exclu-
sively to deal with violence against women.
Although not legally binding, the Declaration on the Elimination of Vio-
lence against Women (hereafter referred to as the Declaration) provides the
first set of international standards to address the problem of violence against
women and girls. The Preamble to the Declaration affirms that the root cause of
gender-based violence is the “historically unequal power relations between
men and women, which have led to domination over and discrimination against
women by men and to the prevention of the full advancement of women…” In
affirming that “violence against women is one of the crucial social mechanisms
by which women are forced into a subordinate position compared with men,”
the Preamble recognizes that violence is both a result and cause of gender-
related inequities.21

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
Like the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women, the notion of equality embodied in the Declaration is free of theoreti-
cal speculation. It seeks to ensure that women are allowed and enabled to
enjoy the most fundamental of all human rights—namely, the right to physical
and psychological integrity and safety. Specifically, the Declaration defines
violence against women as physical and sexual violence that takes place within
the family (and that consists of battering, sexual abuse of female children, dowry-
related violence, marital rape, female genital circumcision, and other tradi-
tional practices that have proven to be harmful to women; nonspousal violence;
and violence that attends various forms of female exploitation); violence against
women in the community (which consists of rape, sexual abuse, harassment, and
intimidation in the workplace and educational institutions, trafficking in women,
and forced prostitution); and violence against women that is either perpetrated
or condoned by the State.
Among the most significant contributions to gender equality embodied in
the Declaration are the obligations imposed upon the State both to “condemn”
gender-based violence and to pursue all “appropriate means” and “without de-
lay” to ensure the elimination of violence directed against women within their
national borders. Commenting on State responsibility in this regard, the UN’s
Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women observed:
The problem of violence against women brings into sharp focus an issue that has been
troubling the international community—State responsibility for the actions of private citi-
zens. In the past, a strict judicial interpretation had made the State responsible only for
actions for which it or its agents are directly accountable. In this case it would relate to
issues such as women in custody and women in detention and perhaps the problem of
women during armed conflict. The question of domestic violence, rape and sexual harass-
ment, etc., were seen as the actions of individuals and thus beyond the “human rights”
responsibility of the State.22
By specifying a proactive role for the State in all situations in which women
are more likely than men to be victims of violence, the Declaration on the
Elimination of Violence against Women makes it possible to conceptualize
even private acts of violence against women (for example, domestic violence)
as violations of women’s human rights. Inasmuch as the equal protection of all
citizens from violence on account of race, class, religion, or sex is fundamental
to any functional and operational definition of equality, the Declaration pro-
vides a major advance in establishing the equality of women and men world-
wide.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
The four actions taken between May 1990 and December 1993—the actions
of the UN’S Economic and Social Council in 1990 and CEDAW in 1991, the
Vienna Declaration in June 1993, and the UN Declaration on the Elimination of
Violence against Women in December 1993—were the first concrete signs of
the international community’s moral and legal commitment to eradicating this
global, age-old problem. They are among the most significant developments in
human-rights law in the twentieth century and are the first to challenge the legal
and moral foundations on which misplaced justifications for allowing gender-
based violence to continue are based.
In its resolution 44/82, the UN’s General Assembly designated 1994 the
International Year of the Family. This act catalyzed a number of processes that
resulted in clarifying the steps necessary to protect and promote the advance-
ment of women and girls. At its thirteenth session, for example, the Committee
on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women chose to mark the Interna-
tional Year of the Family by analyzing three articles in the Convention on the
Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women that have special
significance for the status of women in the family: Articles 9, 15, and 16.
Article 9(1) of CEDAW disallows nationality laws that discriminate against
women by limiting their nationality rights in situations in which men’s rights are
not so limited. In some countries, for example, women are unable to confer on
foreign husbands such rights as may be conferred by men on their foreign
wives (such as the right of residency or the right to become a citizen after a
brief residency period). Furthermore, inasmuch as Article 9(2) provides women
and men with equal rights with respect to the nationality of children, women
who are now prevented from doing so may soon be able to pass citizenship
onto their offspring. (At present the constitutions of several nations provide
that children born outside of the country may become citizens only if their
father is a citizen.) Commenting on the significance of Article 9, Marsha Free-
man, the director of International Women’s Rights Watch, observed:
Nationality is fundamentally related to women’s exercise of personal liberty and freedom
of movement. If a woman’s nationality or that of her children is dependent upon her
husband’s nationality, her ability to make adult decisions as to residence, travel, her children’s
welfare, or even marriage is severely limited.23
Article 15 of CEDAW provides for the equality of women before the law.
The right of women to attain the age of majority (or legal age) at the same age as
is applied to men; the right of women to undertake contractual obligations and
to sell, buy, and administer property; the right of women to inherit and admin-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
ister estates; the right of women to appear before the court on their own behalf
and to have their testimony given weight equal to that of men; and the right of
women to choose freely where they will live or travel without male consent
are all provided for under Article 15.
Article 16 covers marriage and family law and is designed to promote equality
within the family and to protect women from the discriminatory effects of cus-
tomary laws, traditions, and religious practices that usurp the rights of women
and/or girls to choose their own spouse and to give their consent to marriage.
Article 16 also provides that during marriage men and women should be equally
responsible for household and family responsibilities, should have equal rights
to family decision-making, should be equally responsible for children, and
have equal power in discharging familial authority.
In September 1995, during the fiftieth anniversary year of the United Na-
tions, the Fourth World Conference on Women was held in Beijing, China,
with delegations from 189 countries. This gathering represented the largest
United Nations Conference ever held. The Platform for Action and the Beijing
Declaration emerging out of the Conference were adopted unanimously by 189
countries and are among the most comprehensive human-rights documents ever
articulated on behalf of the world’s women. The Platform for Action seeks to
uphold the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against
Women (1979) and to build on the Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the
Advancement of Women (1985). While the Platform for Action’s overall objec-
tive—empowering all women—conforms to the purposes and principles of
the Charter of the United Nations, its immediate aim was to establish a basic
group of priority actions to be carried out during the five-year period be-
tween 1995 and the turn of the century. The Platform for Action contained twelve
areas of critical concern that were to receive special attention:
1. The persistent and increasing burden of poverty on women;
2. Inequalities and inadequacies in and unequal access to education and train-
ing;
3. Inequalities and inadequacies in and unequal access to health care and
related services;
4. Violence against women;
5. The effects of armed and other kinds of conflict on women, including
those living under foreign occupation;
6. Inequality in economic structures and policies, in all forms of productive
activities and in access to resources;

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
7. Inequality between men and women in the sharing of power and deci-
sion making at all levels;
8. Insufficient mechanisms at all levels to promote the advancement of
women;
9. Lack of respect for and inadequate promotion and protection of the hu-
man rights of women;
10. Stereotyping of women and inequality in women’s access to and partici-
pation in all communication systems, especially in the media;
11. Gender inequalities in the management of natural resources and in the
safeguarding of the environment;
12. Persistent discrimination against and violation of the rights of the girl
child.24
In its effort to contribute in new ways to the eradication of all forms of
inequality and abuse, the Platform for Action outlines specific actions to be
taken by governments to address each of the problem areas adumbrated above.
In its comprehensiveness it has left almost no institution of civil society un-
touched. Included in the Platform are actions prescribed for national and local
governments, community organizations, nongovernmental organizations, educa-
tional institutions, the public and private sectors, and the mass media as di-
rected by the State. Thus the Platform for Action is one of the most comprehensive
documents ever articulated in the interest of promoting and protecting women’s
human rights.
Since articulation of the Platform for Action measures have been under-
taken to improve the status of women within the United Nations itself. For
example, the numbers of women in professional and decision-making posi-
tions at the UN has increased and are expected to continue to increase. These
changes not only facilitate the realization of the important goals outlined in the
Platform for Action but also serve as greater evidence of the UN’s commitment
to the advancement of women in all fields of human endeavor. Beyond these
steps, the United Nations has, since the Beijing Conference, sought to forge
even stronger bonds with nongovernmental organizations at the grass-roots levels
and has begun to work to encourage a wider spectrum of civil society to con-
tribute to the advancement of women and their protection from human-rights
abuses.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
Where Do We Go From Here?
Despite the progress made during the last half century, and notwithstanding
the detailed and much-needed prescriptions for change addressed to govern-
ments and institutions of civil society, violence against women and girls contin-
ues to be a public-health scourge of global proportions. According to the UN’s
Special Rapporteur on Violence against Women, appointed just before the
Beijing Conference in 1994, violence against human beings, and particularly
against women and girls, continues to be a major factor hindering the realiza-
tion of human rights goals:
War, repression, and the brutalization of public and private life have destroyed the possi-
bility of human rights being enjoyed as a universal phenomenon. Violence against women,
in particular, has inhibited women as a group from enjoying the full benefits of human rights.
Women have been vulnerable to acts of violence in the family, in the community and by
States. The recorded incidents of such violence have reached such unprecedented pro-
portions that they have shocked the conscience of the world.25
As is clear from the review of significant milestones over the course of the
last half-century, international discourse and actions aimed at uprooting the es-
sential causes of gender-based violence and discrimination have tended to be
centered on international law and human rights and on the transformation of
institutions. The underlying assumption appears to be that, when the national
and international legal instruments necessary for securing gender equality and
for protecting women’s rights have been fashioned and applied, gender-based
discrimination and abuse will find an inhospitable environment and will gradu-
ally disappear.
As vital as legal and human-rights measures are, they are insufficient to ef-
fect the magnitude of change necessary. Inasmuch as the various forms of vio-
lence perpetrated against women and girls in the privacy of the home and under
the eye of the State are sustained by long-standing cultural and psychosocial
conventions, legal strategies that are not accompanied by efforts to address the
intra-personal dimensions of the problem are likely to prove ineffective. More
specifically, as long as human beings, collectively and individually, fail to un-
derstand the essential roots of violence, as long as they remain morally, spiri-
tually, and psychologically underdeveloped, they will tend to allow the
perpetration of violence-related cultural norms and meanings regardless of
the rule of law. Indeed, unless cultural norms and outworn modes of thinking
receive sustained attention, legal and human-rights measures, however vital
they may be, will prove to be insufficient. A global campaign to elevate the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
status of women, to promote gender equality, and to eradicate gender-based
violence must be fueled and upheld not only by enforceable local and interna-
tional laws but also by educational processes that address the inner terrain of
human consciousness, human values, and human spiritual and moral develop-
ment.
Moreover, even in countries that uphold the rule of law, as legal theorist
and researcher Amede Obiora suggests, the impact of the broad legal culture
on the persistence of gender-based discrimination and violence cannot be over-
looked. The term “legal culture” has been described as “the network of values
and attitudes which determine why, when, where and how people employ le-
gal structures and why legal rules work or do not work.” It is, according to
Obiora, “the legal culture that provides the impetus for the use, abuse, or avoid-
ance of the law.”26 If the legal culture of a nation is not oriented toward the
advancement and protection of women, a proliferation of laws, however much
needed, will not remedy gender-based violence and discrimination.
There are at least three dimensions to a legal culture—the outer form, or
legal structure of a community; the inner form, or the philosophical principles
that animate that structure; and the actors within a community who embody in
their deeds the degree of commitment they have to the principles that animate
their legal and/or social system. The outer aspect of a legal culture is utilitar-
ian and has to do with mechanisms designed to facilitate applying a community’s
constitution and/or body of laws. The inner aspect is abstract and has to do with
metaphysical principles that the laws of a community are designed to embody,
protect, and advance. Thus, more than the facilitation of order and social pro-
cesses, the desire to promote such metaphysical values as justice, equality, hu-
man nobility, and truth are the implicit or explicit goals that buttress most
non-totalitarian legal systems. Indeed, even in contemporary western cultures
where law is presumed to be merely utilitarian or functional, the strength of
the law rests, to no insignificant degree, on its ability to evoke a sense of
respect, and sometimes even reverence, for the legitimacy of the social order
that the law is designed to protect.
A people’s awareness of and appreciation for the underlying metaphysical
values that serve as the foundation of law give a legal culture its enduring
strength and render a legal system more than “a mere code of laws.”27 In the
absence of a concern for the metaphysical values, laws are powerless to pro-
tect against human and civil-rights abuses. Harold Berman, one of the world’s
foremost legal historians, notes that, in the final analysis, what empowers law is
the “deeply or passionately held conviction that law is not only an instrument of
secular policy but also part of the ultimate purpose of life.”28 Thus, underlying
the failure of nations, communities, and families to protect and advance the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
rights of women and girls and to protect them against gender-based violence
are not only legal and human-rights standards that leave women vulnerable but
also maladaptive values, attitudes and patterns of behavior that require atten-
tion. It is for this reason that in the global effort to eradicate gender-based
violence, exploitation and abuse, the much-neglected body of world literature
concerned with moral refinement and self-mastery deserves renewed consid-
eration.
Self-Mastery
As has been noted throughout the ages, no effort to eradicate violence and
abuse within a society can be successful without giving due consideration to the
challenges of moral growth and self-mastery. Notwithstanding the violence and
abuse carried out in the names of the world’s spiritual traditions, most of these
have linked the preservation of human rights, honor, and dignity to the control
and/or proper expression of aggression and desire. Islam, for example, en-
courages the followers of Muhammad to engage in jihad, or “holy war.” While
jihad is frequently invoked to justify acts of terrorism and violence, the jihad
spoken of in the Koran may also be understood as a call to the holy war to
conquer one’s self. One who engages in jihad seeks to achieve a state of inner
purity and self-control. Commenting on this fact, the Islamic Sufi mystic Bawa
Muhaiyaddeen observed: “For man to raise his sword against man, for man to
kill man, is not holy war. True holy war is to…cut away the enemies of truth
within our own hearts. We must cast out all that is evil within us, all that op-
poses God. This is the war we must fight.”29 The Bahá’í scriptures also explain
that the Cause of God “belongeth not to the material world. It cometh neither
for strife nor war, nor for acts of mischief or of shame; it is neither for quarrel-
ling with other Faiths, nor for conflicts with the nations. Its only army is the
love of God, … its only battle the expounding of the Truth; its one crusade is
against the insistent self, the evil promptings of the human heart.”30 Similar
guidance on conquering the self may be found in Judaism, Hinduism, Christian-
ity, African spiritual beliefs, the Zoroastrian Faith, Buddhism, and so on.
Although self-mastery need bear no relationship to the self-denying, self-
righteous, or puritanical spirit that often masquerades in its name, it does re-
quire that constant attention be given to developing those human qualities that
may come forth through training and significant effort. For example, inasmuch
as compassion is an antidote to exploitation and abuse, many spiritual traditions
of the world continually exhort their followers to cultivate it. Expressing the
sublime longing of the soul for the quality of compassion, the Buddhist poet-
saint Shantideva pleads:

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
May I be a balm to the sick, their healer and servitor until sickness come never again;
May I quench with rains of food and drink the anguish of hunger and thirst;
May I be in the famine of the age’s end their drink and meat;
May I become an unfailing store for the poor, and serve them with manifold things for their
need.
My own being and my pleasures, all my righteousness in the past, present and future, I
surrender indifferently,
That all creatures may win their way to their end.31
At the core of a spiritual perspective is not ideology but a heartfelt sense of
self-transcendent values, an acute awareness of what is sacred in life, and the
capacity to translate such an awareness into one’s relationships with others. More
than anything else, it is the longing to protect and cultivate that which is sa-
cred—both within oneself and within others—that induces the desire for self-
mastery. When this desire is awakened, individual behavior is conditioned,
not so much by ideology, the force of law, or by the threat of punishment as by
a deep appreciation of the beauty inherent in what the Buddha referred to as
right action.
Addressing the Millennium Peace Summit of Religious and Spiritual Lead-
ers, held at the United Nations on 28—31 August 2000, Albert Lincoln, the
Secretary-General of the Bahá’í International Community, put a turn-of-the-mil-
lennium face on the results of traditional education and appealed to the as-
sembled delegates, on behalf of the world’s children, for moral and spiritual
education:
Looking beyond immediate crises and conflicts, one of the greatest dangers facing man-
kind comes from a generation of children growing up in a moral vacuum. Our hearts go out
to the child-soldiers of Africa, the child-prostitutes of Asia and the desperate scavengers
of the world’s countless slums and refugee camps, victims of poverty which is both spiri-
tual and material. But we must not forget the millions of young people growing up in
societies whose traditional value systems lie in ruins, or those deprived of spiritual training
by generations of dogmatically materialistic education. And lest we oversimplify the causes
or the remedies, let us also call to mind the young products of permissive liberalism in the
West, some of whom are as well-armed and violence-prone as their age-mates in less
prosperous lands. Each child is potentially the light of the world, and its darkness. Lighting
the lamps of these souls is a responsibility we must collectively assume if civilization is to
thrive. Children must not be deprived of the light of moral education, especially the girl

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
child, who is the transmitter of values to future generations. Indeed, educated women are
the most important keys to world peace.32
Development of the “inner life and private character” has long been under-
stood as critical to the civilizing process.33 In The Nicomachean Ethics Aristotle
avers: “the end of political science is the supreme good; and political science
is concerned with nothing so much as with producing a certain character in the
citizens or in other words with making them good, and capable of performing
noble actions.”34 Such notions are not limited to the Western liberal tradition.
In the East the Buddha promoted a system of moral education based upon the
“eightfold path.” His teachings affirm that, until right knowledge, right aspira-
tion, right speech, right behavior, right livelihood, right effort, right mindful-
ness, and right absorption characterize the inner and outer life, neither the
person nor the society can be well-ordered. In the Great Learning, a book
written by the Chinese sage Confucius, the preservation and the development
of the empire are both linked to the moral refinement and development of the
individual:
The ancients who wished to illustrate illustrious virtue throughout the empire, first ordered
well their own States. Wishing to order well their States, they first regulated their families.
Wishing to regulate their families, they first cultivated their persons. Wishing to cultivate
their persons, they first rectified their hearts. Wishing to rectify their hearts, they first
sought to be sincere in their thoughts. Wishing to be sincere in their thoughts, they first
extended to the utmost their knowledge. Such extension of knowledge lay in the investi-
gation of things.35
Likewise, Christianity, a moral and spiritual philosophy that embraces the
globe, teaches that “man cannot live by bread alone” and that the refinement of
human character is indispensable to the life and health of a community. We find
similar assertions in all the world’s major faiths. There is thus some transcultural
basis for giving consideration to the moral and spiritual dimensions of human
rights abuses.
The Authenticity Group
The International Moral Education Project, also known as the “Authenticity
Group,” is an international team working on the development of materials that
might frame a global approach to moral and spiritual development. Founded by
the Bahá’í-inspired mathematician and philosopher, William S. Hatcher, the Au-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
thenticity Group grounds its approach to moral development in the assumption
that the highest values that a civilization can promote are the cultivation of
human consciousness and the development of authentic human relationships.
All other values, they suggest, should be evaluated in light of the extent to
which they are in harmony with these overarching goals.
Moral education, according to the Authenticity Group, is concerned, first
with understanding the nature of value, and second, with applying this under-
standing in one’s relationships with others. There are two types of value: intrin-
sic value, which arises from the inherent properties and capacities of an entity;
and extrinsic value, which is ascribed to an entity through subjective prefer-
ences and social conventions. An example of the latter is the value generally
ascribed to money. Although little more than ink on paper and although highly
ephemeral, money derives a great deal of value by social agreement. Its value
is thus extrinsic to its inherent qualities and nature. Things of intrinsic value, by
contrast, derive their value, not by social agreement, but from the inherent
qualities and potentialities of the entity in question. The sun is of value irre-
spective of any individual’s opinion about it. Its value is inherent in the fact that
it is the primary source of light and warmth in our biosphere and is thus a sine
qua non for life and development in the natural world.
Similarly, the human person is of inherent value. The value of the human
person is inherent in the facts that persons represent the fruit and arrowhead of
evolution on earth and that the maintenance and advancement of civilization—in
all of its forms—depends upon the cultivation of persons. The protection and
development of this value is the supreme objective of any legitimate social
order. Any system of government, any set of laws, any ideology or cultural
practice that unduly jeopardizes the realization of the inherent potential of a
human being is in violation of that person’s inalienable right to become. Such a
society has betrayed its legitimate raison d’être.
According to the Authenticity Group, true morality consists in apprehending
the inherent value of the self and others, and in living in relationship in such a
way as to afford the development and expression of humanity’s full potential.
The creation of the capacities necessary for authentic relationships is the ob-
jective that fuels the work of the Authenticity Group.
The signs of authenticity in relationships are said to be the practice of jus-
tice and the presence of self-sacrificing love. Nonauthentic relationships, by
contrast, are characterized by conflict, disharmony, manipulation, cruelty, jeal-
ousy, and so forth. “Altruistic love,” the Group writes, “is not just a feeling of
emotional warmth towards others, but is an objective, attractive force that oper-
ates according to certain objective laws and principles. Moral education means

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
learning these laws and principles so that we become ever more subject to the
force of love in our lives. Morality, then, is the pursuit of authentic relationships
or, stated more fully, the process of developing our innate capacity to sustain au-
thentic relationships.” The Authenticity Group illustrates this unique perspective
with an analogy from physics:
Current physical theory has discovered four fundamental forces. The force of gravity and
the strong nuclear force are purely attractive forces. The weak nuclear force, however, is
a purely repulsive force: it has no (currently known) attractive form. Finally, electromag-
netic force has both an attractive and a repulsive form. Now [we] affirm that altruistic love,
like gravity, is a purely attractive force. True love cannot be the cause of conflict or es-
trangement between two people any more than the force of gravitational attraction be-
tween two physical bodies can push them apart.
Of course, physical bodies can be pulled apart by forces that overcome their mutual
gravitational attraction. But, whenever we observe two physical bodies moving away from
each other, we know that such a configuration is occurring in spite of their mutual gravita-
tional attraction, not because of it. In the same way, whenever we see conflict and dishar-
mony in human relationships, we know that it is due to some factor other than love.…
Thus, moral education is the pursuit of relational authenticity by learning the laws that
govern the action of love and then implementing that knowledge in our relationship with
others. The moral person is one who has acquired the capacity for genuine love and self-
sacrifice. He demonstrates this by his integrity and trustworthiness in his relations with
others, by consistently treating others with genuine kindness and encouragement.… In
other words, the basics of morality are stark in their simplicity: either a person has ac-
quired the capacity for self-sacrifice, which he demonstrates through active, humble,
reliable service towards others, or he has not, in which case his behavior will reflect various
pathologies of inauthenticity… (such as greed, untrustworthiness, jealousy, self-
centeredness, coldness, indifference, anger, cruelty).36
Because the acquisition of the capacity for authentic morality requires con-
tinual, often painful self-evaluation, a number of strategies have been devel-
oped throughout history to transform basic morality into something else that
can be more easily achieved. For example, although one of the overarching
goals of religion is to facilitate the achievement of authentic moral relation-
ships, this goal is frequently transmuted in such a way that religion becomes
primarily an ideology. As an ideology, the doctrines of religion become the
supreme value, and morality is conceived as their protection and propagation
by all possible means. Although all religions present a philosophy of life and
teach the belief in certain doctrines and ideas, “authentic religion conceives of
belief in such doctrines, not as an end in itself, but as a means for developing
the capacity for authentic relationships (both with God and with other human
beings).”37 Thus, the error of ideologized religion lies not in seeking to propa-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
gate and advance certain doctrines, but rather in exalting these doctrines above
authentic relationships, thereby interchanging means and ends:
We will use the term ideology to designate any philosophy which holds that certain doc-
trines, ideas, or propositions are more important than human beings. Thus defined, any
ideology (irrespective of what its specific doctrinal content may be) contradicts the basic
assumption of authentic religion, which holds that (while God may be the Supreme Value
in Existence) the human being is the supreme value in creation. Moreover, any moral
system holds that lesser values may be sacrificed to obtain greater values. An ideology
thus sanctions (at least implicitly) the deliberate sacrifice of human beings, or of authentic
human relationships, if it is deemed necessary for the propagation of the doctrines of that
ideology. In regarding its doctrines as more important than human beings, an ideology
considers these doctrines as God—as the supreme value in existence. Ideology is thus
idolatry. It is the worship of certain ideas.38
As it is with ideology, culture-specific values and traditions are also fre-
quently invoked in support of the continuation of practices that may be harmful
to the equal participation, development, and/or well-being of subgroups such
as women and girls within a culture. The continuation of such practices is in-
spired by the belief that cultural values are the only ultimate values and that
these values are necessarily local and accidental, rather than intrinsic and uni-
versal. Inasmuch as this perspective renders all cultural values fundamentally
equivalent, the argument is that each cultural group must be left free from out-
side interference in deciding the values that should animate community life.
Legitimate as is the concern for preserving a people’s right to determine
the nature and course of their own lives, the work of the Authenticity Group
assumes that there are also intrinsic, universal values that derive from the uni-
versal nature and needs of all human beings—irrespective of race, culture, or
historical time period. The global community is said to have a moral responsi-
bility to safeguard these values, even when the parties concerned would pre-
fer to operate free from external influence. To do otherwise would be to
render the preservation of culture the supreme value, irrespective of the im-
pact of culture-specific practices on the lives of human beings. The articulation
of an international body of laws designed to preserve human rights is an ex-
plicit rejection of the assumption of absolute cultural relativity by the commu-
nity of nations. At the same time, inasmuch as the adoption of a universal set of
moral values on the local level is not likely to be realized unless large seg-
ments of the population are persuaded of their logic and need, the promotion
of such values depends upon processes of education and persuasion. The Au-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
thenticity Group is in the process of developing and testing a variety of mate-
rials that might achieve these objectives.
Reflections on The Nature of Moral Education
An approach to moral education that nurtures in children and youth a hunger
for moral and spiritual growth, while also developing morally relevant capaci-
ties is likely to be more effective in eliminating the root cause of abuses of
power in the family, the community, and the State than are approaches that focus
only on transmitting moral lessons or rules. As has been suggested, what is
needed is the development of an inner agent of self-control that encourages
right action because of its own inherent beauty. Iraj Ayman, a scholar specializ-
ing in moral philosophy, refers to this capacity as the capacity for “spiritual
discernment.”39 According to educator Irene Taafaki, developing spiritual dis-
cernment requires that institutions around the world promote moral growth.
The role of educators is to use a variety of processes to nurture children and
youth to go beyond knowing what constitutes moral ideas to developing moral
insight and practicing moral behavior, the goal being to develop moral wisdom,
rather than a rote following of rules. Moral wisdom then becomes the “inner
lens” through which children are both able to discern what is right and are able
to do those things that enhance the well-being of their own self and others.40
A pedagogy of moral education, notes Taafaki, would include active learn-
ing rather than the passive inculcation of moral lessons; a loving and encourag-
ing environment wherein educators demonstrate in their own lives the qualities
they wish to teach; using the arts, literature, and folklore from the various cul-
tural and religious communities around the world; and cooperative learning
exercises that enable children and young people of diverse backgrounds to
work together in exploring and resolving a range of socially and morally rel-
evant problems. The promotion of a spirit of service to humanity is an integral
part of the pedagogy of moral education. Such service enables children and
youth to enhance their understanding of the relevance of moral behavior for
the development and solidarity of family and community, and for the cultivation
of a sense of “at-oneness” with others.41
In its recent commentary, The Prosperity of Humankind, the Bahá’í Interna-
tional Community notes:
To an extent unimaginable a decade ago, the ideal of world peace is taking on form and
substance. Obstacles that long seemed immovable have collapsed in humanity’s path;
apparently irreconcilable conflicts have begun to surrender to processes of consultation

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
and resolution; a willingness to counter military aggression through unified international
action is emerging. The effect has been to awaken in both the masses of humanity and
many world leaders a degree of hopefulness about the future of our planet that had been
nearly extinguished.42
The Bahá’í International Community goes further to note that immense intel-
lectual and spiritual energies are seeking expression throughout the world
and that “[e]verywhere the signs multiply that the earth’s people yearn for an
end to conflict and to the suffering and ruin from which no land is any longer
immune. These rising impulses for change must be seized upon and channeled
into overcoming the remaining barriers that block realization of the age-old
dream of global peace.”43 It may be reasonably argued that few barriers to
peace stand so strongly as does the global problem of gender-based violence.
Over the course of the foregoing century, legal and human-rights advocates
have been mobilized effectively in the global campaign to eradicate it. The
bevy of international laws, conventions, declarations, and resolutions articu-
lated over the last half century in particular attest to the importance of the legal
victories achieved in advancing women’s human rights. What is needed now is
an awakening and mobilization of humanity’s hunger for moral and spiritual
refinement. When these inner dimensions of human life receive the same at-
tention that has been thus far accorded the outer legal dimensions, a context
will be created in which the eradication of gender-based abuses and the ad-
vancement of women and girls in all fields of human endeavor will be finally
realized.
Footnotes
Nabíl-i-A‘zam [Muhammad-i-Zarandí], trans. and ed. Shoghi Effendi (1932). The Dawn-Breakers:
Nabíl’s Narratives of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. pp. 294-95.
Quoted in Shoghi Effendi (1974; 1999 printing). God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. p. 75.
Stanton, E. C. (1981). Correspondence, Writings, Speeches. New York, NY: Schocken. pp. 28-35.
Quoted in Miller, B. (1995). Returning to Seneca Falls: The First Women’s Rights Convention &
Its Meaning for Men & Women Today. Hudson, NY: Lindisfarne Press. pp.19-20.
Quoted in United Nations (1995). The United Nations and the Advancement of Women. New
York, NY: United Nations Office of Public Information. p.14.
United Nations. p. 16.
ibid. p. 20.
ibid. p. 22.
Quoted in ibid. p. 22-23.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
ibid. p. 23.
10 ibid. p. 27.
11 Paraphrased in United Nations. p. 34.
12 United Nations. Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
Preamble.
13 ibid. Part I, Art. 1.
14 ibid. Art. 2.
15 ibid. Art. 4.
16 United Nations (15-26 July 1995). The Nairobi Forward-Looking Strategies for the Advancement of
Women. Adopted by the World Conference to Review and Appraise the Achievements of the
United Nations Decade for Women: Equality, Development and Peace, Nairobi, Kenya.  par. 258.
17 United Nations Economic and Social Council (24 May 1990). Annex to Resolution 1990/15. Recom-
mendation XXII.
18 CEDAW (1992). General Recommendation 19, entitled “Violence against Women.”
19 United Nations (June 1993). The Vienna Declaration and Programme of Action. Part I, Par. 18.
20 ibid.
United Nations (December 1993). Declaration on the Elimination of Violence Against Women.
Preamble.
Coomaraswamy, R. (1994). Preliminary Report Submitted by the Special Rapporteur on Violence
against Women, Its Causes and Consequences. (United Nations Document E/CN. 4/1995/42).
Freeman, M. A. (April 1993). Human Rights in the Family: Issues and Recommendations for Imple-
mentation International Women’s Rights Action Watch. p. 10.
24 United Nations (1996). Platform for Action and the Beijing Declaration. New York: United Nations
Department of Public Information. pp. 76-82.
Coomaraswamy.
26 Obiora, A. (1994-95). Kindling the Domain of Social Reform through Law. Third World Legal
Studies. p. 106.
27 Bahá’u’lláh (1993). The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: The Most Holy Book. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. K14.
28 Berman, H. (1993). Faith and Order: The Reconciliation of Law and Religion. Atlanta, GA: Schol-
ars Press. p. 7.
29 Muhaiyaddeen, M. R. B. (1987). Islam & World Peace: Explanations of a Sufi. Philadelphia, PA:
The Fellowship Press. p. 44.
30 Abdu’l-Bahá (1997). Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World
Centre. p. 256.
31 Shantideva, quoted in Smith H. (1991). The Religions of Man. New York, NY: Harper Collins. p.
123.
32 Lincoln, A. (2000). Statement to the Millennium World Peace Summit, Hall of the United
Nations General Assembly, New York.
33 Shoghi Effendi (1981). The Unfolding Destiny of the British Bahá’í Community: The Messages
from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles. London: Bahá’í Publish-
ing Trust. p. 28.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Reflections on Human Rights, Moral Development and the
Global Campaign to Eradicate Gender-Based Violence
34 Aristotle, trans. J. E. C. Welldon (1987). The Nicomachean Ethics. Amherst, NY: Prometheus
Books. p. 30.
35 Confucius (1992). The Great Learning. Iin The Four Books: The Chinese-English Bilingual Series
of Chinese Classics . Nan Lu, China: Hunan Publishing House. p. 3.
36 Hatcher, W. in Collaboration with the International Moral Education Project (1997). Ethics of
Authenticity, Book I: A Course of Integrated Ethics for Youth and Young Adults. St. Petersburg,
Russia: Author. p. 4.
37 Hatcher. p. 5.
38 ibid. pp. 5-6.
39 Ayman, I., ed. (1993). A New Framework for Moral Education. Germany: Asr-i-Jadíd Publisher.
p. 15.
40 Taafaki, I. A Pedagogy for Moral Education. In Ayman. p. 43.
41 ibid. pp. 41-51.
42 Bahá’í International Community (1996). The Prosperity of Humankind. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Pub-
lishing Trust. p. 1.
43 ibid.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World
Order: From “Me” to “Us”—Confronting the Fear
BY MARTHA L. SCHWEITZ
The international field of human rights is fraught with conflicting assump-
tions and worldviews, accusations of cultural hegemony or alternatively of self-
serving cultural relativity, and arguments about whether universality is desirable,
necessary, or possible. These disputes reach an impasse most readily when
they concern the priority of the individual versus the community, often ex-
pressed in terms of choosing to confer priority either on individual human
rights or on individuals’ responsibilities to society. This essay proposes that
this presumed conflict—between the need to fully protect human dignity and
equality and the need to foster the well being of society as a whole—is false.
It is submitted that the essential goals of the liberal human rights regime can be
achieved while also creating communities that are more unified and conducive
to the common good than is generally believed possible in modern Western
societies. Bahá’í principles offer a way to do both, and Bahá’í communities in
every culture around the world offer emerging models, still in infancy, of how
to put these principles into practice.
To Western human rights advocates, any attempt to legally link human rights
with human responsibilities is suspect. Such linkage is a hallmark of socialist
legal traditions, under which the exercise of individual rights is dependent
upon the performance of duties to society. In such legal systems, rights are a
contingent grant of the state, rather than an entitlement belonging to every hu-
man being.1 The socialist position is anathema to the essential liberal concept
of human rights, defeating the very purposes for which that concept was histori-
cally created: to protect individuals from tyranny, and from oppressive and
abusive claims of social duty or the collective good as determined by unac-
countable authorities. Nevertheless, as U.S. society is reportedly beginning to
rediscover the value of community, and to entertain the thought that an indi-
vidual rights approach alone may not be sufficient to achieve social justice and
human fulfillment, the question is before us again: where is the ideal balance

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
between individual freedom and the good of society as a whole? Is this image
of a “balance”—implying that for one side to go up the other must go down—
the right image?
All people are conditioned in our thinking, our concept of self, our rela-
tionships and worldviews by what we have experienced and learned growing
up in our native cultures. As incontrovertible as this fact may be, and as fre-
quently acknowledged as it is in human rights debates, its full implications are
still usually ignored in the first person. The Western human rights tradition is
not only a legal heritage but a set of cultural and social assumptions that perme-
ate individuals’ views of themselves and of their relationships to others, to
society, and to governmental institutions. People in Western societies do not
disavow social responsibilities. Most would acknowledge that they have count-
less responsibilities, either voluntarily assumed or flowing from citizenship,
to a range of people and institutions, including family, friends, neighbors, em-
ployer, civic or private organizations, government, and perhaps even to society
at large. The question is whether these responsibilities have any direct con-
nection to rights, and how the exercise of rights affects all of these human
relationships.
It is not within the very limited scope of this essay to explain systematically
the Bahá’í teachings on human rights, the Bahá’í view of service to humanity as an
essential purpose of life, the new institutional order ordained in the Bahá’í
writings, or even the Bahá’í principles on community building, as essential as
these are to the points being made. Much of this is set out elsewhere in the
present work.2 The purpose is rather to suggest some perspectives—cultural,
legal, and psychological—to help explain why those of us with a generally
Western upbringing have such difficulty imagining how a unified society could
be created without unacceptably compromising individual rights. Unless we
understand why we believe what we believe, we cannot loosen the hold that
culture and upbringing have on our minds. Recasting the boundaries between
individual and society requires probing the assumptions and wholly legitimate
fears underlying Western individualism. These are evaluated here in light of
Bahá’í principles. It also requires a mind open to the possibilities of social
evolution, based on changed assumptions and a new institutional order. To be
independent in our investigation of truth, a core Bahá’í principle, demands no
less.
There are passages in the Bahá’í writings that, taken alone, could support the
liberal Western view of human rights; others could support the socialist ap-
proach (which also resembles the approach of many traditional “non-modern”
societies). There are countless references in the Bahá’í writings to individual
rights, to abolishing prejudice and all forms of discrimination, to the duty to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
speak one’s views frankly, and to the central spiritual duty to investigate truth
without bias. The individual is “the focus of primary development” in society,
and the Universal House of Justice has the constitutional duty to “safeguard the
personal rights, freedom and initiative of individuals.”3 Shoghi Effendi wrote:
The unity of the human race, as envisaged by Bahá’u’lláh, implies the establishment of a
world commonwealth in which all nations, races, creeds and classes are closely and per-
manently united, and in which the autonomy of its state members and the personal free-
dom and initiative of the individuals that compose them are definitely and completely
safeguarded.4
Such passages confirm the Western view of the necessity and even central-
ity of individual rights in creating a just society in which all can flourish. Other
passages in the Bahá’í writings suggest a different view:
The Bahá’í conception of social life is essentially based on the principle of the subordina-
tion of the individual will to that of society. It neither suppresses the individual nor does it
exalt him to the point of making him an antisocial creature, a menace to society. As in
everything, it follows the ‘golden mean.’5
To some readers, the foregoing statement comes as welcome assurance of
restoring balance to an unbalanced world, of promoting the good of both indi-
viduals and society as a whole, without sacrificing the well being of either. For
others, reference to “the principle of the subordination of the individual will
to that of society” is a red flag. Governments, armies, and others (certainly not
limited to those of socialist heritage) have waged atrocities against human be-
ings the world over in the name of perverse claims of the “good of society” or
the “good of the state.” But what are we to make of “the principle of the subor-
dination of the individual will to that of society” when it is joined in the Bahá’í
writings with powerful defenses of human rights? This is new. This combina-
tion raises questions that communities and governance systems have not yet
addressed, much less resolved. This is the basis for the claim that, in the Bahá’í
system, human dignity and equality can be fully protected while also fostering
the well being of society as a whole and building unified communities.
It is more accurate to say that the Bahá’í writings blend seemingly diverse
ideals, rather than balancing them or compromising between them. A 1988 let-
ter of the Universal House of Justice to the Bahá’ís in the United States, pub-
lished under the title, Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Bahá’u’lláh (hereinafter Rights Statement), is a preeminent example of such
blending with respect to free speech rights and the responsibility to build
unity in one’s community and society. This letter was motivated by noticing
Bahá’ís in the United States “invoke Western liberal democratic practices when
actions of Bahá’í institutions or some of their fellow Bahá’ís do not accord with
their expectations.”6 The Rights Statement emphasizes the nature of the Bahá’í
administrative order and its distinction from previous governance structures,
the requirements of freedom, the appropriate avenues and methods for criti-
cism within the Bahá’í community, the role and right of freedom of expression,
and the love that is necessary to build peace and unity on the foundation of
justice. The Rights Statement is a model of how to approach the blending of
ideals, based on an analysis of ultimate purpose. It also goes a long way to-
wards bringing to light the assumptions of Western tradition, both those that
are worthy of the future of humanity and those that need to evolve. This essay
attempts no such comprehensive analysis, but does in its conclusion return to
the question of ultimate purpose: development of the individual not only as a
political or economic actor but as a spiritual being, who requires relationships
and community to achieve full human potential.
So, how does one begin to achieve independence in the investigation of
truth? What is at issue here is not the possibility of attaining truly objective
knowledge, which has preoccupied philosophers for centuries and is now, in
the age of quantum physics, considered virtually impossible, but rather increas-
ing degrees of detachment from the views of others. Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of
the Bahá’í Faith, wrote that through justice, “thou shalt see with thine own eyes
and not through the eyes of others, and shalt know of thine own knowledge and
not through the knowledge of thy neighbor.”7 The more highly educated we
are, the more we like to believe that we are the masters of our own thoughts,
free of external control, but the persistence of cultural differences belies this
notion. Education is one way to escape cultural conditioning, but it must be an
education that challenges one’s assumptions rather than consistently and implic-
itly reinforcing them.
Another path to increased detachment from one’s upbringing is to live in a
foreign culture long enough for it to cease being foreign, long enough to dis-
cover that your view of your home culture has changed and that your thought
patterns are shifting. The following sketch comparing life in Japanese society
to life in the United States demonstrates, lest there be any doubt, that there is
more than one way to live. Generalizations are offered not as accurate descrip-
tions of every member of a given society, but as reflecting ideas that Japanese
and Americans in fact hold about themselves and about each other. This ob-
server has lived in each country long enough to become thoroughly unsure as to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
which extreme—U.S. individualism or Japanese communitarianism—is more
threatening to human well being or holds more promise of evolving towards
the “golden mean.”
The United States and Japan—One Planet?
A Western foreigner newly settling in Japan will at first be surprised by
stories of junior high school students who are ostracized or worse for wearing
the wrong socks with their school uniform, or who are expelled from school
for coloring their hair. Surprise will give way to deep concern when this Western
foreigner realizes that most of her Japanese university students are incapable
of formulating an interesting question for class discussion, in either Japanese
or English, and that even those who could do so will never voluntarily speak in
class unless coerced. Concern yields to distress when this foreigner learns that
her own outspoken seven-year-old daughter, after only one year in Japanese
school, now refuses to answer a teacher’s question until she is sure what answer
the teacher is looking for, in fear of making a m-i-s-t-a-k-e. The teenage sui-
cide rate in Japan is off the charts. Widespread domestic violence is only now
beginning to emerge from being shrouded as a private family matter. The Japa-
nese saying, “the nail that sticks up gets hit down,” takes on ever deeper and
more pernicious meaning the longer one remains in Japan and understands the
implications of Japanese-style communitarianism.8
A Japanese foreigner newly settling in the United States will at first be
surprised by the sloppy appearance of students on their way to high school and
by how much free time students enjoy, with few evening or weekend classes.
Surprise will give way to concern when this Japanese foreigner realizes that
most of her American university students not only eat their lunches during lec-
tures, but expect their teachers to be available at their beck and call to discuss
at length any idle question that occurs to them or to challenge their grade on a
quiz. Concern yields to horror when this foreigner learns that anyone in the
United States, not only police officers, may own a gun, most of them legally. In
the United States, the likelihood that one will be a victim of violent crime
(other than domestic violence) is heavily dependent on the neighborhood in
which one lives and works, which in turn depends primarily on one’s economic
advantages, which correlate strongly with one’s race or ethnicity. The American
advertising slogan, “have it your way,” takes on ever deeper and more perni-
cious meaning the longer one remains in the United States and understands the
implications of American-style individualism.
Americans are shocked at the lack of individuation in Japan, at the lack of
what is viewed in the United States as personal moral maturity and autonomy

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
typical for an adult, and the low level of apparent public debate and concern
over profound issues of social justice, such as the status of permanent residents
of Korean ancestry. But Japan is a country where every child receives a decent
public education, where the differences between the best and the worst public
schools are tiny by U.S. standards, where virtually every (legal) resident is
covered by affordable national health insurance, and where the levels of pov-
erty and violent crime are a small fraction of those in the United States. Granted,
all of these systems are coming under increasing stress in Japan with the cur-
rent economic recession, but the differences in how these human needs are
handled in the two countries remain astounding.
Japanese are shocked by the lack of personal security in the United States,
physical and otherwise, by public incivility and rudeness, and by the extreme
segregation by economic level of housing, from mansions and sprawling sub-
urbs to inner cities and dangerous subways. But the United States is a country
where almost anyone (relative to Japanese practice) has a chance to train for a
new job at any stage of life, where women are (almost) the peers of men in
many public and private institutions, where university education is among the
best in the world, where public interest groups have some effective voice in
politics, where it is no longer publicly acceptable to be overtly bigoted or
extremely sexist, and which is struggling severely but making some progress
in figuring out how to create a harmonious and just society out of the hugely
diverse population that is the United States.
Are all of these differences between Japan and the U.S. (and these are only
some of the most obvious) due to the two societies’ respective views of the
individual and society, of human rights and human responsibilities? Probably
not. Japan and the United States are radically different cultures, each with long
histories of social and political evolution and revolution that barely intersected
with one another. But their respective communitarian and individualistic roots
clearly have something fundamental to do with all of the social, political, and
cultural differences between them.
The Spectrum
Japan and the United States do not represent opposites but rather points on
a line. Societies or governments that place primary value on the individual, and
those that place primary value on the collective or community, can be located
along a spectrum of possibilities. The United States may be considered a state
of strong individualism, and Japan a state of strong communitarianism.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
In the individualistic state, even young children are imbued with an indi-
vidual rights orientation, prone to argue loudly about whether a game is fair,
about what they have a right to do (such as take their ball and go home), and how
no one (often including their parents) has the right to tell them differently.
Such a society tends to perpetual disruption and conflict, as competing rights
claims clash. Given ordered systems for public and private dispute resolution,
however, members of such a society generally accept this persistent contention
as a fact of life, as a necessary part of the process for resolving rights claims
and thereby achieving some level of social justice, since it appears that no
better way has been found.
In the communitarian state, young children are imbued with a sense of their
responsibilities to the group, with the need to belong and to find their identity
in belonging, and they are punished by exclusion, be it to the hallway of a
school or to the outdoor back steps of their home.9 In Japan, children and adults
alike are largely defined by relationships to their “sempai” (seniors) or “kohai”
(juniors), and by the respective duties or privileges that flow from these rela-
tionships of status. Such a society has rigid structures of authority, in both public
and private life and institutions, and obedience to rules and to those in power
is generally considered a virtue.
In the individualistic society, the overall aim of social organization may be
described as “social justice,” whatever that may mean to various segments of the
population. Unfortunately, justice is often reduced to meaning getting one’s
way, taking revenge, or proving someone else wrong. In the communitarian
society, the overall aim is “social harmony.” While harmony obviously has much
to commend it, it can also be reduced to meaning only a superficial quiet, a lack
of overt conflict or a condition of prevailing homogeneity and passivity, born
of tight social controls and the need or desire to please certain others.
As far apart as the United States and Japan are on the spectrum of individu-
alism and communitarianism, this spectrum continues further in both directions.
Beyond the individualistic state to the “left” is libertarianism and anarchy. To
the “right,” beyond the communitarian (but politically democratic) state is to-
talitarianism and autocracy. It would seem that human civilization, on the global
scale and through the long ages of history, has in the main managed to advance
from both primitive extremes. Compared to these poles, Japan and the United
States represent considerably more moderate forms of governance and social
structure, in terms of the balance between wholly unfettered individual will
and absolute unfettered and unaccountable authority. The challenge and oppor-
tunity offered to humanity by Bahá’u’lláh is to take the remaining steps toward
the golden mean, to the ideal blending of individual autonomy and community
cohesion, called in the Bahá’í writings, “unity in diversity.”

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Shoghi Effendi describes the future “world federal system” not as a
compromise or trade-off among various prevailing systems, but as “blending
and embodying the ideals of both the East and the West.”10 It is generally per-
ceived that one ideal of Eastern cultures is their emphasis on community and
relationships; one ideal of Western societies is their emphasis on individual
autonomy and moral choice. The mandate of the nascent global Bahá’í commu-
nity and institutions is to blend these ideals. In a blending, as distinct from a
compromise, the essence and virtue of both individualism and communitarianism
are preserved. What is jettisoned are the unfortunate extremes to which East
and West have both succumbed. An individualistic society does not necessarily
have to be self-centered, fractured, morally adrift, and greedy. A communitarian
society does not necessarily have to be conformist, exclusionary, authoritarian,
and ethnocentric. A characteristic of the maturity of civilization should be the
capacity to blend ideals, and to distinguish between the core of an ideal value
and its mutation into a harmful or even pathological extreme.
Assumptions Underlying the Liberal Concept of Human Rights
Western attachment to the moral and social primacy of the individual is
intimately linked with the traditional Western concept of human rights. That
concept, which has been both defended and critiqued eloquently and repeat-
edly, need not be addressed at length here. But it is useful to identify certain
assumptions underlying the Western human rights concept, and to pay particular
attention to free speech rights in the United States in comparison with interna-
tional treaty standards. This example shows that even free speech is not an
absolute right under U.S. law (as is sometimes supposed by non-lawyers), and
that the judicial interpretation of what is and is not protected speech reflects
value choices that may not serve the present needs of the highly pluralistic U.S.
society, let alone the world.
Human rights are a very distinct category of rights claims, distinguished, for
example, from contractual, legal, or moral rights. Contractual rights are acquired
voluntarily by a party upon entering into a valid contract, and generally depend
upon performing one’s duties to the other party. For example, in a sales con-
tract in which money is to be exchanged for a computer, the seller has no claim
to the buyer’s money apart from the contract, and only has a claim to the money
under the contract if she delivers the computer. Legal rights are those that the
relevant legal system recognizes, generally implying that there are legal means
available to pursue a remedy if the right is violated. Such rights may flow from
private agreements (contracts), from laws and governmental regulations, or from
the national constitution directly. Moral rights is a term most often used to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
assert a claim to a right that is not a legal right. While many legally enforceable
rights are also considered moral entitlements, a right is sometimes said to be
“only” a moral right when the legal system does not recognize it. Legal rights
differ among countries, but moral rights claims may be even more diverse,
reflecting the different values held by individuals and groups within a single
society.
In contrast to contractual, legal, and moral rights, the traditional Western
concept of human rights is that they are rights belonging to every human being,
simply by virtue of being human.11 They are not given by any government, and
therefore cannot be taken away by any government. Thus, they need not be
legal rights. The concept assumes the moral equality of every human being,
positing that every person is equally entitled to respect and to protection of his
or her dignity. One’s human rights are expressly not contingent on fulfilling
duties of any sort. To condition human rights on performance of responsibili-
ties would be to assert that human rights derive from some social relationship
rather than from one’s simple humanity, and this would gut the concept.
The independence of human rights from responsibilities does not mean that
an individual cannot be deprived of the enjoyment of a right, through legiti-
mately constituted criminal justice procedures, as a consequence of criminal
conduct. For example, a person may be imprisoned (restricting the right to
freedom of movement) as punishment for theft, in some places sentenced to
death (terminating one’s right to life) upon conviction for murder, or have their
children taken away (restricting parental rights) as a consequence of being con-
victed of child abuse. But in no case does proving the absence of criminal
conduct or fulfillment of a duty come first. In other words, one does not need
to show that one is a good parent in order to have parental rights, that one is a
good citizen in order to have the right to vote, that one does not discriminate
against others in order to be entitled to equal protection of the laws, or that one
has something worthwhile or truthful to say in order to be entitled to freedom
of speech.
The question of what particular rights are or are not human rights consistent
with the traditional Western concept remains a subject of some debate, but at
the core are the essential civil and political rights plus the right to own prop-
erty. The overall purposes of these rights are generally to provide equal op-
portunity to all (as distinguished from equality of outcome or results), to allow
everyone to participate on an equal basis in the democratic political process
and the legal system, and to ensure that otherwise the government leaves people
alone to speak, choose, and do as they please. Due to the nature of these rights,
the party with primary responsibility for protecting them is the government
and its agents. For example, the government has a legal duty not to discriminate

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
based on race, religion, national origin, sex, etc., but individuals have no such
duty, provided that they are acting in their individual capacity in a “private”
sphere of activity.
In the traditional Western concept of human rights, can rights ever be lim-
ited or restricted? The theory holds that the only justification for limiting a
human right is to protect another person’s human right. There is only one right
which may be said to be “absolute,” subject to no limitations whatsoever, and
that is freedom of belief and conscience, because its exercise can never inter-
fere with another’s right. All other rights may be limited, including how one
practices one’s beliefs or expresses one’s conscience. For example, one may
not handle snakes dangerous to the public in the name of religious practice, nor
burn crosses in another’s front yard. There is also a doctrine that gives narrow
play to protecting “public order,” that has been invoked, for example, to pro-
hibit bigamy in the name of religious observance, but other examples of its use
are rare. When courts must choose between two competing rights claims, they
engage in a balancing process. It is instructive, for example, to examine the
limitations in U.S. constitutional law on free speech, perhaps the most cher-
ished U.S. rights tradition, to see in what circumstances other rights are given
priority.
The principal exceptions to the free speech right guaranteed in the First
Amendment to the U.S. Constitution are obscenity, defamation, and creating an
immediate physical danger. The reason for excluding obscenity from protec-
tion is not some competing right not to be exposed to it (although this concern
does enter into zoning restrictions for pornographic but not obscene establish-
ments), but is based on an analysis of the kind of “speech” Congress had in mind
when it adopted the Amendment. For similar reasons, “commercial speech,”
i.e., advertising, enjoys some but not full constitutional protection. Defamation
laws prohibit speaking or publishing that harms another’s reputation in certain
ways, but only if the statement is false. In other words, people have a right not
to have their reputation smeared by false statements, but have no right to be
protected from damaging but accurate statements. The other right that may su-
percede another person’s right to free speech is the right to physical security.
According to the classic example, one has no right to scream “Fire!” in a crowded
movie theatre when there is no fire.
The central principle in free speech doctrine is that, absent the foregoing
exceptions, speech must not be restricted on the basis on its content. The First
Amendment, as currently interpreted and applied by the U.S. Supreme Court,
protects an individual who wishes to say or publish even the most hate-filled
racist muck, provided that it will not be likely to create immediate physical
danger. Thus, a racist speech given to a group of like-minded listeners is per-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
mitted. The same speech given on a street corner where it is likely to provoke
a riot is not. The danger of future riots, not to mention all other forms of human
suffering and social conflict that will predictably flow from a proliferation of
hate groups, is considered legally too remote or speculative to justify denying
the right to free speech.
The foregoing example illustrates how out of step the U.S. system is now
with international standards. States parties to the Convention on the Elimina-
tion of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, that entered into force in 1969,
agree to “condemn all propaganda and all organizations which are based on
ideas or theories of superiority of one race or group of persons of one colour
or ethnic origin, or which attempt to justify or promote racial hatred and dis-
crimination in any form, and … shall declare an offence punishable by law all
dissemination of ideas based on racial superiority or hatred … .”12 In compar-
ing this standard to U.S. law, it is apparent that the U.S. system (that is, the
Constitution as currently interpreted by the Supreme Court) places a higher
value on individual free speech rights than it does on creating a racism-free
society, or at best feels that it is too hard to define hate speech without endan-
gering constitutionally protected speech. On wonders whether the U.S. public
generally would agree.
The supreme value placed on free speech under U.S. law is based on the
notion of the “free marketplace of ideas.” The remedy for “bad” speech (that
which arguably has no value or is destructive of social values) is not to censor
it but to allow more speech, on the assumption that flooding the system with
information is how the public shapes its opinions and learns to distinguish,
according to each individual’s own value system, what is good and what is bad.13
Nevertheless, to allow racial hate speech seems prehistoric, as if the govern-
ment is trying to maintain a stance of moral neutrality toward the issue, a neu-
trality that is belied by our nation’s more recent legal and social history. The
human right of an individual to be a racist cannot be disputed, as there can be no
justification for a government to dictate permissible beliefs to individuals. But
that does not imply the right to act on those beliefs nor to disseminate such
ideas, when they are socially divisive in the most profound way: by explicitly
denying the principle of human equality on which the concept of human rights is
supposedly based.
The U.S. Constitution has been referred to by one writer as embodying a
“morality of noninterference,” viewing individuals as “atoms of self-interest”
and the struggle for power as a zero-sum game. Safety from man’s “insatiable
appetite for power” was presumed to flow from rules reinforcing separation:
separating legislative from executive from judicial, federal from state, gov-
ernment from commerce, government from the people, and people from people.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
This mindset is identified by that (male) writer with a prototypical male view,
that equates adulthood with autonomy and individual achievement. He contrasts
this with the prototypical female view, which equates maturity with responsi-
bility and the capacity to care for and empower others. The female approach
seeks security in relationships and in connections, and is suspicious of the male
view as justification for indifference and unconcern.14 The argument is not that
the female view should replace the male, but that both need to be reflected in
our laws and institutions to create a balance which is more fully human.
This gender analysis is one approach to understanding the need for further
evolution in Western constitutional rights structures. Another is to see the shift
from a highly individualistic approach to an approach that gives wider scope to
an individual’s sense of concern and responsibility as the move from an adoles-
cent stage of newly discovered individuation to a more mature concern with
one’s place in the larger world. Another may be to see this stage of radical
individualism, along with the strong Western human rights tradition that accom-
panies it, as a historically necessary stage in order to obliterate, permanently,
any claim of legitimacy for tyranny and oppression. The argument can be made
that in order to overcome these evils it has been necessary to place the indi-
vidual squarely above society, to ensure that human rights trump any collective-
good policy justification. But evolution of civilization need not stop there.
The conclusion suggested by this look at the assumptions underlying the
traditional Western concept of human rights is not that they have all been su-
perceded or become unnecessary. On the contrary, by giving rise to national
governments based on a central purpose of protecting individual rights, human-
ity has gradually discovered and developed over the course of recent centu-
ries the concept of limited government or constitutional government. This is a
profound step forwards in political organization, particularly considering that
it followed on the era of the divine right of kings. In a constitutional system, by
definition, there are limits placed on the powers of government, the structure
of government is set out along with provisions about how the system can accom-
modate change over time, basic rights are guaranteed, and a system is estab-
lished to ensure authoritative interpretation of the constitution itself.
Constitutional government is an advance in civilization that is to be treasured
and guarded. The question is, what kind of constitution is necessary for the next
stage in the evolution of human society? Bahá’ís believe that the writings of the
Faith contain, as Shoghi Effendi terms it, the “charter” of future world civiliza-
tion.15
The Bahá’í writings that compose this “charter” set out laws and principles,
ordain an institutional system from the local through international levels, allo-
cate the powers of interpretation and elucidation of the charter itself, and form

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
the basis upon which a full legal system may be developed in the future. By
addressing issues from obligatory prayer to the prohibition of slavery, from
the requirements for marriage to condemning tyranny and violence, from ex-
hortations to truthfulness to punishments for certain crimes, it is unlike any
constitution known.16 Its universal, comprehensive, and irrevocable principles,
all of which may be said to derive from and promote the central value of the
oneness of humanity, constitute the framework within which all Bahá’í institu-
tions must operate. The overarching social purpose of these principles is to
create unity in diversity, and to create it through justice. “The light of men is
justice. Quench it not with the contrary winds of oppression and tyranny. The
purpose of justice is the appearance of unity among men.”17 “Justice and equity
are two guardians for the protection of man.”18
Preserving and defending the body of rights that today are considered in-
ternationally to be fundamental civil and political rights (although not necessar-
ily entirely as now interpreted in U.S. law) would seem to be an essential
element in achieving this justice and in accomplishing the aims both explicit
and inherent in the concept of the oneness of humanity. But in the Bahá’í system
justice alone is not the final goal. The purpose of justice is unity, and unity
requires that rights be joined by responsibilities. Unity does not require that a
new raft of responsibilities become legally enforceable, and, in this writer’s
view, fundamental rights should remain wholly legally independent of respon-
sibilities.19 But in tandem with legal development, achieving unity requires a
profound psychological shift in how we understand both our rights and our
selves in relation to our community and society.
The Psychological Factors—What Are We Afraid Of?
Those of us who have been raised with American-style individualism face a
number of real barriers if we venture to consider recasting the relationships
between ourselves and our families on the one hand, and our society and social
institutions on the other. At both the personal level and the level of social
policy, we seem to be held back by certain fears, all of which are entirely
rational, given our circumstances. Nevertheless, these fears may be examined
and questioned. As has been emphasized earlier, it is a great challenge to sepa-
rate what is meritorious in individualism from the cultural habits of self-
centeredness, supposed moral neutrality, and greed that it has engendered,
while at the same time recognizing that the alternative is not to bounce to an
opposite extreme of stifling conformity. The principles of community build-
ing in the Bahá’í teachings express an unusual blend.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
At the most basic personal level, the primacy of individual autonomy ap-
pears to be so extreme that we are afraid we will lose our selves if we be-
come part of anything at all (the image of imprinting at birth on John Wayne,
archetypal cowboy of American movies, comes to mind.) We seem to fear,
consciously or otherwise, that if we join a group or commit to being part of a
community, without keeping a substantial psychological distance:
1. I will have to be like everyone else and act like them;
2. I will have to agree with what others say or at least pretend to agree;
3. I will have to like everyone else or at least be nice to them all;
4. I will have to take on responsibilities to others that I may not always feel
like fulfilling;
5. my independent initiative will be limited; and/or,
6. I might have to admit dependence on others or that I am not fully self-
sufficient.
What are the assumptions about the characteristics of community implied in
these fears? How do these assumptions compare to principles of Bahá’í com-
munity building? If this list is even partially accurate, it is apparent that fear of
having to conform (#1 and 2 above) is a basic problem in community building in
our society. Of course, many groups (social, religious, political) do demand
from their members a high degree of conformity, and to this extent the notion
of belonging has been given a bad name. According to Bahá’í principles, a com-
munity must thrive on diversity of all kinds: race, gender, ethnic background,
social class, language, culture, educational experience, religious temperament,
family styles, personality types, even diverse styles of learning and expres-
sion. As Shoghi Effendi stressed, uniformity in matters of principle is essen-
tial, diversity in everything else is encouraged.
Conformity in thought or behavior should not be confused with the conse-
quences of the exercise of choice. A fundamental purpose of our Western free-
doms is to enable individuals to make their own life choices. Every significant
choice one makes necessarily forecloses other options. For example, when
one becomes a Bahá’í, one is choosing to give up the prerogative to join the
KKK, to run for partisan political office, to drink alcohol, and to engage in
other behaviors that are contrary to Bahá’í laws and principles. The fact that all
members of the community make these same choices is not evidence of confor-
mity, but of acting on shared principles and values, freely chosen as a result of
one’s faith in Bahá’u’lláh. Every choice exercised is a choice to forsake the
freedom to choose that which is incompatible with the first. That is the meaning

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
of the verb, “to choose.” A perpetual state of total freedom, meaning a continu-
ing state of available but unexercised choice, would not seem to have much
value in adult life.
As for other elements in the list above, independent initiative (#5) is pre-
served in a Bahá’í community; in fact individual initiative is referred to in the
Bahá’í writings as the source of power of a community. It is also raised to an
additional community level, as individuals should discover in a Bahá’í commu-
nity that their own initiative can often contribute to progress in collective ac-
tion, as well as be improved itself through consultation with others.
Acknowledging one’s dependence on human relationships (#6), as well as one’s
capacity to learn to care for and be responsible for others (#4), are essential to
community life, and reflect spiritual reality described in the Bahá’í writings.
These are necessary aspects of personal spiritual growth.
As for the remaining element above, Bahá’í community life does require
being nice to others (#3). More specifically, “love, respect and courtesy” are
among the “spiritual requisites for all successful Bahá’í relationships.”20 Why
do we have such trouble with this, to the point of sometimes even claiming that
such “manners” (itself a mischaracterization) are a limitation on freedom of
expression? In American society, does one have a “right” to be rude, insulting,
or thoughtless? This is not an entitlement included in the U.S. Bill of Rights or
in any human rights treaty, and would seem somewhat contradictory to protect-
ing human dignity, but it is not uncommon for Americans to claim that they are
entitled to speak to anyone in any manner they please at any time. Perhaps this
claim is based on the assumption that anything not prohibited by the govern-
ment is acceptable. If so, this assumption reflects an extremely limited view of
human society. Laws have never been intended to be the sole guides of human
behavior, but simply the last resort and safety net to prevent behavior most
destructive to society or harmful to others. To imagine that the safety net is the
standard itself, that law has replaced morality (regardless of the extent to which
moral standards are agreed in a given society), seems to be a characteristic of
our individualistic rights-oriented society. On some level, we seem to think
that we should “feel free” to do anything at all that a law does not proscribe,
even though very few people actually live their lives that way. People gener-
ally do impose upon themselves all kinds of extra-legal limitations and re-
quirements, and may or may not be aware of where those values have come
from in their lives.
It is useful to compare the foregoing list of fears and apprehensions with
those that underlie the stereotypical fear of commitment upon entering into
marriage. Marriage is sometimes portrayed in our society as the most severe
encroachment on personal freedom, e.g., “ball and chain.” Yet anyone fortunate

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
enough to have experienced a good marriage, or who is closely acquainted
with someone who has, knows that nothing could be further from the truth—in
a good marriage. The freedoms, prerogatives, and greater level of autonomy
that one “sacrifices” to be part of a good marriage are not considered a loss by
the partners. A partner in a good marriage has learned by experience that the
value of the relationship far exceeds what was given up, and may even deny that
anything of value had been sacrificed. The same is true for those who have
successfully entered into community with others in forms less intimate than a
marriage.
When considering political questions of human rights and governmental au-
thority rather than personal issues of autonomy, why are we afraid to let go of
the supremacy of the individual? Subordinating the individual will to the good
of society means, to our knowledge, that the state can dictate where you live,
where you work, how many hours you must work, what you will earn, who will
take care of your children while you work, how many children you may have,
who you may marry, with whom you may associate, what you must profess to
believe, and what you can read. This is expressly not what “subordination of
the individual will” means in the Bahá’í system. Bahá’í law and principles di-
rectly contradict such repressive governmental restrictions. It may tax our imagi-
nation to discover other meanings of “subordination of the individual will” that
are compatible with basic human rights, but it can be done.
Beyond the specific practices of oppressive governments, past and present,
we are afraid of what we cannot foresee. We are afraid of what we do not know
and have not experienced. Even if we are inspired to try to blend the ideals of
East and West, we do not know exactly where we are going. It is hard enough to
handle a change process when one knows with some confidence what the out-
come will look like. But to work for change based on principles—on applying
both the transcendent and more specific principles of the Bahá’í writings to
whatever may be the current conditions at a given time and place—is a severe
psychological challenge. This process is bound to produce anxiety and discom-
fort, along with excitement, inspiration, and enticing glimpses of the possibili-
ties. For example, to approach gender equality, we need to give up many of our
gender-stereotyped identities, but in the Bahá’í writings there are no clearly
defined definitions of masculinity and femininity with which to replace them.
This is what principle-based learning is about, as distinguished from rule-based
learning or following a developed model, and it is what Bahá’ís are called to
do. As the popular book title (on time management) reads, “feel the fear and do
it anyway.” Bahá’u’lláh has prepared us to expect radical change: “The world’s
equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great,
this new World Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
the agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes
have never witnessed.”21
Along the path of this process of blending ideals, there seem to be two
particularly deep pitfalls to avoid. The first is myopia. Because the Bahá’í writ-
ings embody a combination of ideals on a variety of subjects, it is extremely
easy to read selectively and thereby justify or feel comfortable with one’s own
current assumptions, whatever they may be. One can emphasize honesty and the
frank expression of one’s views or the responsibility to be courteous and re-
spectful; the sanctity of motherhood or the requirement that women become
the peers of men in public life; the prohibition on backbiting or the desirabil-
ity of consultation with one’s Assembly to solve problems. In all of these cases,
it is not a question of choosing one or the other. It is figuring out how to do both
at the same time. The same is true with respect to blending the rights of indi-
viduals with the responsibilities necessary to create unified societies.
The other pitfall is the pendulum swing. When our values are questioned, a
human tendency is to assume that the only alternative is an opposite extreme.
Or, as we try to engage in a change process and to move away from our habits,
we overshoot the golden mean and land on the other side. This is a conse-
quence, again, of the principle-based learning process. We are not comfortable
with this process, and habitually seek a model to follow. The only alternative
models available are likely to be just as far from the mean in the other direc-
tion. This can happen, for example, when someone who has generally distrusted
authority and institutions becomes a Bahá’í, thus finding good reasons as well as
a spiritual basis to come to think that authority in certain forms is a good thing.
But the result may be that he or she behaves for a time in a manner that is rigid
or domineering, or otherwise displays negative expressions of authority. Prin-
ciple-based learning, intertwined as it must be in the Bahá’í system with per-
sonal spiritual growth, is a perpetual challenge.
The greatest fear likely to be aroused by the Bahá’í teachings on social
evolution is that it is advocating not only values but a system of governance
derived from revealed religion. It is beyond the scope of this essay to explain
how the Bahá’í administrative order differs from other systems, to further de-
scribe the protections inherent in its constitution, or to explain why the prin-
ciple of obedience to decisions of elected Bahá’í institutions instills confidence
in the Bahá’í community rather than fear. The Bahá’í governance system needs to
be examined on its merits, as well as in light of its claim to divine origins. It
would be a great loss if our devotion to our Western traditions, that have given
rise to such progress in governance, would render us incapable of considering
that they too must evolve and develop in response to change and in order to
release still-untapped human potential. The advances and lessons of the past

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
few hundred years are a vital foundation for the future, but they are not the end
of the story.
An Emerging Sense of Responsibilities—A Proposed Universal Declaration
As high as the psychological barriers to community building may be, and as
strict as the Western tradition has been about separating rights from responsi-
bilities, few have ever supposed that a good society could be created on the
basis of rights alone. The difficulty has been to reach agreement on what re-
sponsibilities members of society share, and on whether they should be le-
gally codified.
The debate about the relationship between rights and responsibilities goes
back, in the Western tradition, at least as far as the French Revolutionary Parlia-
ment of 1789. Nearly half of the members of that Parliament who voted for the
Declaration of Human Rights voted also for a proclamation of human responsi-
bilities. More recently, the drafters of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, adopted as a United Nations General Assembly resolution in 1948, in-
cluded one article on responsibilities. Article 29 states, “Everyone has duties
to the community in which alone the free and full development of his person-
ality is possible.” The Declaration also acknowledges the needs of the general
welfare, stating that the only limitations on rights are those necessary to protect
the rights of others or to meet “the just requirements of morality, public order
and the general welfare in a democratic society.” A few years ago, in honor of
the 50th anniversary of that Declaration, a significant initiative was launched to
increase individuals’ sense of responsibility to each other without compromis-
ing human rights. The InterAction Council proposed a Universal Declaration of
Human Responsibilities.22 Its primary drafter was Dr. Hans Küng, President of
the Global Ethic Foundation, who also drafted the Declaration Toward a Global
Ethic, adopted by the Parliament of the World’s Religions in Chicago in 1993.
The Universal Declaration of Human Responsibilities was intended as an
ethical appeal, put forward for international debate, in an attempt to establish a
standard that can be adopted by all people. It was intended as a complement to
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, to reinforce and strengthen it.
Whereas the latter eventually led to the adoption of many human rights trea-
ties, the initiative of the InterAction Council is specifically not aimed at legal
codification. “Precisely because community and morality cannot be prescribed
[as legal obligations], the personal responsibility of citizens is indispensable.”23
In nineteen very brief articles, the Universal Declaration of Human Responsi-
bilities sets forth duties concerning non-violence and respect for life, justice
and solidarity, truthfulness and tolerance, and mutual respect and partnership. It

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
begins with the general principles that every person has a “responsibility to
treat all people in a humane way” and to “strive for the dignity and self-esteem
of all others.” All persons, groups and organizations, including states, armies
and police, are “subject to ethical standards.” It also includes the negative con-
verse of the Golden Rule: “What you do not wish to be done to yourself, do not
do to others.” The provisions of the Declaration may represent emerging glo-
bal consensus on the core responsibilities necessary to create more humane
societies.
With respect to non-violence, the Declaration includes the responsibilities
to respect life and to resolve disputes without violence, denies the right to
injure, torture, or kill (except in self-defense), and prohibits genocide, terror-
ism and the abuse of civilians as instruments of war. “The animals and the natu-
ral environment also demand protection. All people have a responsibility to
protect the air, water and soil of the earth…” As the dominant rights-oriented
approach in the U.S. legal system has forced even environmental issues into the
rights mold, leading to arguments about whether or not plants or animals or
natural resources have legal “standing” in order to claim a right to protection,
this alternative approach based on responsibilities might be considerably more
sensible and productive (if, in this case, tied to enforcement measures).
With respect to justice and solidarity, the Declaration states that, “Every
person has the responsibility to behave with integrity, honesty and fairness.” In
contrast to the rights approach of the United Nations Declaration on the Right to
Development, the InterAction document asserts that, “All people, given the
necessary tools, have a responsibility to make serious efforts to overcome
poverty, malnutrition, ignorance and inequality [and to] promote sustainable
development…” “All people have a responsibility to develop their talents
through diligent endeavor;… Everyone should lend support to the needy, the
disadvantaged, the disabled and to the victims of discrimination.”
Other articles in the Declaration include the responsibility of all men and
women “to show respect to one another and understanding in their partnership.
No one should subject another person to sexual exploitation or dependence.”
Representatives of religions “should not incite or legitimize hatred, fanaticism
and religious wars, but should foster tolerance and mutual respect between all
people.” Every person, “however high or mighty,” has a “responsibility to speak
and act truthfully.” “General ethical standards,” such as truthfulness and fairness,
apply to politicians, public servants, business leaders, scientists, writers, art-
ists, and others. This extends to the media as well. “Freedom of the media
carries a special responsibility for accurate and truthful reporting.”

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
One additional provision deserves comment, as it seems particularly for-
ward-looking. Article 11 states:
All property and wealth must be used responsibly in accordance with justice and for the
advancement of the human race. Economic and political power must not be handled as an
instrument of domination, but in the service of economic justice and of the social order.
To even begin to put this provision into practice would require a profound
shift in perspective on the social function of wealth and on the rights and duties
associated with property ownership. Presently, the control of property is used
as a means of acquiring power over others and of gaining independence from
those who could do one harm. It is widely believed that wealth confers privi-
leges that the owner is free to use in an entirely self-serving manner. Accord-
ing to the Bahá’í principles on economics, possession of property or resources
carries responsibilities and imposes on the owner duties to others. This is
central to the Bahá’í vision of economic justice and is fundamental to the pro-
cess through which the extremes of wealth and poverty are to be eliminated. In
addition to governmental measures, voluntary action on the part of individuals
and enterprises is essential to the Bahá’í economic model.24
Similarly, Article 11 states that political power must not be used to
dominate but to serve justice and the social order. This also comports with
Bahá’í teachings. The Bahá’í administrative order is based on the attitude of
service. The possibility of individual political power has been structurally
eliminated, replaced with corporate decision-making by elected bodies. The
concept of leadership itself is changed, from control to empowerment.
“[L]eadership is that expression of service by which the Spiritual Assembly
invites and encourages the use of the manifold talents and abilities with which
the community is endowed, and stimulates and guides the diverse elements of
the community towards goals and strategies by which the effects of a coherent
force for progress can be realized.”25
This proposed Universal Declaration of Human Responsibilities is a
worthy attempt to promote thought and dialogue. Efforts like this, or the Earth
Charter with respect to environmental issues, work to create a global ethic by
articulating standards that can be agreed worldwide—not by seeking the low-
est common denominator but by encouraging all people to learn from each
other and to move forwards in the development of their own thought and tradi-
tions. The global moral dialogue continues. In the meantime, the worldwide
Bahá’í community is both contributing to this process and learning from it, while
devoting primary effort to bringing into being the spiritualized habits, rela-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
tionships, and institutions that it believes are ultimately necessary to the matu-
rity and unity of humanity.
Conclusion—Some New Assumptions: Transcending Self to Find Self
Blending the ideals of East and West does not require abandoning most of
the assumptions underlying the Western human rights tradition or even indi-
vidualism itself, but it does require adding new dimensions. In addition to
assuming that members of society require physical security and moral autonomy,
the Bahá’í writings assume that we also require community, an environment of
mutual support and cooperation. The individual is a political and economic
actor but is more fundamentally a spiritual being, requiring relationships and
community to achieve full human potential. This requires that we operate on
the principle of unity in all of our affairs, in order to achieve unity through
justice. This sounds circular, but is quite rational. Unity in diversity is not only
the ultimate social goal in the Bahá’í writings; it is also the basic operating
principle, the means and method. As a recent letter of the U.S. National Spiri-
tual Assembly states, “Unity is the precondition of all progress. The expecta-
tion of unity, the perspective of unity, and unswerving compliance with the
requirements of unity are the disciplines that every member must master…”26
These new assumptions about human spiritual reality are what require a re-
alignment of our sense of self and community, of rights and responsibilities.
It is awkward or impossible to carry out this realignment piecemeal. The
necessary changes in attitude, environment, and institutions are tightly interre-
lated. For example, it is a blessing for an individual to act selflessly, putting
the concerns of others first, in a situation where this can build intimacy and
community. It is dangerous to be selfless in a situation where it would lead to
being abused or taken advantage of. Likewise, Bahá’ís are enjoined to trust
their institutions (Local and National Spiritual Assemblies and the Universal
House of Justice), not only because they are divinely ordained but because
they are organized to function in ways that render them deserving of trust. All
component parts of the system, at the individual, community, and institutional
levels, must function together for any of them to achieve their purpose.
An analysis of any part of the Bahá’í system must take into account other
components as well. To compare in isolation parallel aspects of entirely dis-
tinct systems is unproductive. For example, the issue addressed in the Rights
Statement of the Universal House of Justice—the form and manner of expres-
sion that is appropriate and necessary in Bahá’í community life—can only be
understood in the context of the Bahá’í governance and community system. Con-
trast the article on the media in the Universal Declaration of Human Responsi-

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
bilities with an excerpt from the Rights Statement. Article 14 of the Declaration
states:
The freedom of the media to inform the public and to criticize institutions of society and
governmental actions, which is essential for a just society, must be used with responsibility
and discretion. Freedom of the media carries a special responsibility for accurate and
truthful reporting…
The Universal House of Justice wrote in the Rights Statement:
[T]he code of conduct of the press must embrace the principles and objectives of consul-
tation as revealed by Bahá’u’lláh. Only in this way will the press be able to make its full
contribution to the preservation of the rights of the people and become a powerful instru-
ment in the consultative processes of society, and hence for the unity of the human race.27
Both of these passages prescribe ethical standards for the media. The first
emphasizes truthfulness, accuracy, responsibility and discretion, but is predi-
cated on the belief that it is necessary to a just society for the media to criticize
social institutions and governmental actions. The second prescribes for the
press the principles and objectives of Bahá’í consultation, which would not
include criticism of the kind assumed to be necessary in the first. These two
prescriptions, different as they are, are each consistent with their own frame of
reference. They diverge because they are based on different assumptions about
the overall purposes of their governing institutions and about how these insti-
tutions most effectively evolve and mature.
Progress in modern democratic systems is thought to depend on continuous
public comment and criticism of government and direct, often accusatory, chal-
lenge. Progress in the Bahá’í governance system depends on “consultative pro-
cesses.” Briefly, Bahá’í consultation is collective truth-seeking. It is a way to
make decisions, solve problems, and increase understanding, whether in a
meeting of a Spiritual Assembly, between wife and husband, within a Bahá’í
community, or in any other group. The spirit required for consultation is self-
lessness and detachment from one’s own ideas, as well as frankness, respect,
and courtesy. Other essential elements in the Bahá’í governance system include
a structured appeals process, from the local to national to international levels,
as well as appointed institutions whose members work closely with individu-
als and communities in a support and advisory role but without decision-mak-
ing authority. Frequent and regular opportunities for the members of a Bahá’í

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
community to consult with its Local Spiritual Assembly are intended to create
an intimacy, trust, and sense of co-partnership that have no parallel in other
models of governance. Other structures in the Bahá’í system serve a similar
purpose at the national level. In this system, cooperating with (rather than pub-
licly criticizing) an institutional decision that one believes to be in error is
what creates the encouraging (rather than confrontational) environment in which
mistakes can most readily be recognized, learned from, and corrected. It should
not be surprising that operating this way within the Bahá’í institutional system,
based on the expectation, perspective, and requirements of unity, could be
more productive than the methods we see around us, that create neither unity
nor sufficient change to meet urgent needs.
Thus, the first principles of the Bahá’í order regarding the spiritual nature
of human beings are complemented by an institutional system worthy of spiri-
tual beings, and conducive not only to individual growth but to collective spiri-
tual transformation. In order to evolve in this direction, the individualist must
look beyond herself, to see herself as part of a community that has a value
greater than the sum of its parts. It requires the communitarian to look within
himself, to see himself as an individual that has value as more than a constituent
element of a group. Which is easier? Is the American culture or the Japanese
culture better positioned to evolve toward the golden mean? As people of the
West fear conformity and oppression as destructive of what they value most,
people of the East fear excessive self-indulgence and social chaos as destruc-
tive of their most cherished values. But Bahá’u’lláh has called us all to change,
and this demands courage as well as detachment from cultural conditioning. The
most profound way to achieve independence of thought and spirit is to im-
merse oneself in the Bahá’í writings, the Creative Word of God for this age,
and thereby approach a divine knowledge that transcends human limitations.
Ultimately the next advance in human civilization would seem to depend,
most fundamentally, not on new structures or systems but on a change in how
people conceive of their own selves. In the Bahá’í writings, the word “self” is
used in two senses:
[O]ne is self, the identity of the individual created by God. This is the self mentioned in
such passages as “he hath known God who hath known himself,” etc. The other self is the
ego, the dark, animalistic heritage each one of us has, the lower nature that can develop
into a monster of selfishness, brutality, lust and so on. It is this self we must struggle against,
or this side of our natures, in order to strengthen and free the spirit within us and help it to
attain perfection.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Self-sacrifice means to subordinate this lower nature and its desires to the more godly and
noble side of our selves. Ultimately, in its highest sense, self-sacrifice means to give our
will and our all to God to do with as He pleases. Then He purifies and glorifies our true self
until it becomes a shining and wonderful reality.28
The Western human rights tradition has established and vigilantly sought to
protect our right to choose what we do with our God-given talents and capaci-
ties. Beyond that it cannot take us, as the modern democratic state is intended to
allow for as wide a range of moral choices in a pluralistic society as possible.
It seems, unfortunately, that in becoming preoccupied with protecting our right
to choose we may forget to think about our greater purpose in making choices.
For a Bahá’í, “an individual finds fulfillment of his potential not merely in
satisfying his own wants but in realizing his completeness in being at one with
humanity and with the divinely ordained purpose of creation.”29
[T]he honor and distinction of the individual consist in this, that he among all the world’s
multitudes should become a source of social good. Is there any larger bounty conceivable
than this, that an individual, looking within himself, should find that by the confirming grace
of God he has become the cause of peace and well-being, of happiness and advantage to
his fellowmen? No, by the one true God, there is no greater bliss, no more complete
delight.30
World religions have invariably called believers to transcend self, to dis-
cover a spiritual perfection that is both beyond themselves and within them-
selves, and to put others before themselves. Selflessness has always been
identified as spiritual freedom. In the Bahá’í era, this freedom now finds not
only individual but community and institutional expression as well, in an order
conducive to close relationships and loving communities. Shoghi Effendi wrote
that the Bahá’í community is “one spiritual family, held together by bonds more
sacred and eternal than those physical ties which make people of the same
family.”31 The institutional order has been ordained solely to facilitate commu-
nity building, in the broadest sense and on a global scale. “World order is
nothing else than the administrative aspect of brotherhood.”32
Bahá’ís are among the staunchest supporters of human rights, because we
know their spiritual value. Human rights are necessary in order to allow free
reign to our higher selves. But we also know that our purpose lies beyond
gratification of the individual will, and that our happiness depends on what we
do in relationship with others.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
God has given us eyes, that we may look about us at the world, and lay hold of whatsoever
will further civilization and the arts of living. He has given us ears, that we may hear and
profit by the wisdom of scholars and philosophers and arise to promote and practice it.
Senses and faculties have been bestowed upon us, to be devoted to the service of the
general good; so that we, distinguished above all other forms of life for perceptiveness and
reason, should labor at all times and along all lines, whether the occasion be great or small,
ordinary or extraordinary, until all mankind are safely gathered into the impregnable strong-
hold of knowledge. We should continually be establishing new bases for human happiness
and creating and promoting new instrumentalities toward this end. How excellent, how
honorable is man if he arises to fulfil his responsibilities; how wretched and contemptible,
if he shuts his eyes to the welfare of society and wastes his precious life in pursuing his own
selfish interests and personal advantages. Supreme happiness is man’s, and he beholds the
signs of God in the world and in the human soul, if he urges on the steed of high endeavor
in the arena of civilization and justice.33
Footnotes
Donnelly, J. (1989). Universal Human Rights in Theory & Practice . Ithaca, NY: Cornell University
Press. pp. 55-57.
For a comprehensive introduction to Bahá’í history, teachings, and practice, see Hatcher. W. S.
and Martin, J. D. (1984). The Bahá’í Faith: The Emerging Global Religion. San Francisco, CA:
Harper & Row. More specifically, see Weinberg, M. (1998). The Human Rights Discourse: A
Bahá’í Perspective. In Bahá’í International Community. The Bahá’í World 1996-97. Haifa, Israel:
World Centre Publications. p. 266.
Universal House of Justice (1972). Declaration of Trust of the Universal House of Justice . Haifa,
Israel: Bahá’í World Centre. The Universal House of Justice is the international governing body
of the global Bahá’í community, elected every five years by all of the members of all National
Spiritual Assemblies. The latter are national Bahá’í governing bodies, elected annually and
currently numbering about 180.
Shoghi Effendi (1974). The World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p.
203. Shoghi Effendi was the grandson of Bahá’u’lláh, the Founder of the Bahá’í Faith. Shoghi
Effendi served as the appointed Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith until his death in 1957, and his
writings constitute an authoritative source of Bahá’í teachings. Since 1957 there has been no
individual head of the Faith, this role now having passed to the Universal House of Justice, first
elected in 1963.
Shoghi Effendi, quoted in Universal House of Justice (1989). Individual Rights and Freedoms in
the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, a Statement to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of
America. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 20. This guidance is given in general terms and
is stated as a “principle,” but it may be useful to note that it was written in the context of
answering a question concerning “absolute pacifists.” Shoghi Effendi explained that not only is
non-cooperation “too negative” and “too passive a philosophy to become an effective way for
social reconstruction,” which requires spiritual vitalization, but the attitude of absolute pacifists
“is quite anti-social and due to its exaltation of the individual conscience leads inevitably to
disorder and chaos in society. Extreme pacifists are thus very close to the anarchists, in the sense
that both these groups lay an undue emphasis on the rights and merits of the individual.” Shoghi
Effendi (1981). Letter dated 21 Nov. 1936 to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles. Unfolding Destiny: The

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Messages from the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith to the Bahá’ís of the British Isles. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. pp. 435-36.
ibid. p. 1.
Bahá’u’lláh (1994). The Hidden Words. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. Arabic no. 2.
The term “communitarianism” has various connotations for social theorists, but here it is used
for its essential meaning that values of the community or group are given moral and policy
priority over individual rights or concerns.
It is interesting in comparison that punishment in the United States, rather than forced exclu-
sion, is often in the form of grounding, a limitation on the child’s autonomy.
10 Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 204.
11 Whether being human means having a soul or simply being capable of reason depends on the
particular variation of the concept, of which there are several. Also not addressed here is the
fundamental contradiction between this basis for human rights and the fact that all women and
many groups of men (based on race, ethnicity, or land ownership) were for long periods of
history not considered entitled to many “human rights” in legal systems generally professing
adherence to this concept.
12 Art. 4. Close to 150 states are parties to the Convention, including virtually all of Western
Europe.
13 The validity of this assumption, given the dense concentration of ownership and control in the
media industry today, may be questioned.
14 Karst, K. L. (1984). Woman’s Constitution. Duke Law Journal. 448.
15 This consists of Bahá’u’lláh’s Kitáb-i-Aqdas (The Most Holy Book) and the Will and Testament
of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, which constitute “inseparable parts of one complete unit.” Shoghi Effendi (1974).
God Passes By. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 213; Shoghi Effendi. World Order of
Bahá’u’lláh. p. 4. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá was the son of Bahá’u’lláh, and served as his appointed successor
and head of the Faith.
16 An intensely succinct summary of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas appears in Shoghi Effendi. God Passes By.
pp. 213-16. For an attempted description of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in relation to modern constitu-
tional and international law, see Schweitz, M. (1994). The Kitáb-i-Aqdas: Bahá’í Law, Legitimacy,
and World Order. Journal of Bahá’í Studies, vol. 5, no. 35.
17 Bahá’u’lláh (1988). Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust, pp. 66-67.
18 Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi (1971). The Advent of Divine Justice . Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. p. 28.
19 It would be a valuable research effort to determine whether there is any explicit basis in the
Bahá’í writings for tying legal rights to the performance of duties, but none are immediately
evident. In fact, wholly unenforced duties are common, such as obligatory prayer, fasting,
contributing to the Bahá’í funds, and being generous to those in need, suggesting that the
fulfillment of certain responsibilities is most valuable when it springs from moral choice and
understanding of purpose rather than from threat of punishment.
20 Universal House of Justice (19 May 1994). Letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United
States.
Bahá’u’lláh, quoted in Shoghi Effendi. World Order of Baha’u’llah. p. 109.
The InterAction Council is a group of some 35 former heads of state, from all regions of the
world. It was founded by Takeo Fukuda. The text of the Declaration is available at
www.asiawide.or.jp/iac.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
Rights and Responsibilities in the Bahá’í World Order
Küng, H. (1999). Commentary on Two Declarations. In Kunugi, T., Schweitz, M., eds. Codes of
Conduct for Partnership in Governance: Texts and Commentaries. Tokyo: United Nations Uni-
versity. pp. 297-98.
24 For more on the Bahá’í teachings concerning economics, see Huddleston, J. (1996). Principles of
Economic Justice. In Lerche, C. O., ed. Towards the Most Great Justice . London: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. pp. 137-52.
Universal House of Justice. Letter to the National Spiritual Assembly of the United States. A Spiritual
Assembly is a governing body of the Bahá’í community, at either the local or national level. An
Assembly has nine members, elected annually by written ballot and without campaigning or
nominations.
26 National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States (April 2001). Annual Report of the
National Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States, Ridván 2001.
27 Universal House of Justice. Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, a
Statement to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America. p. 17-18. Shoghi Effendi
wrote about the press in the future age of a world commonwealth: “The press will, under such
a system, while giving full scope to the expression of the diversified views and convictions of
mankind, cease to be mischievously manipulated by vested interests, whether private or public,
and will be liberated from the influence of contending governments and peoples.” Shoghi
Effendi. World Order of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 204.
28 Shoghi Effendi (10 December 1947). Letter Written on his Behalf to an Individual Believer. In
Hornby, H., comp. (1994). Lights of Guidance: A Bahá’í Reference File. New Delhi, India: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. no. 386.
29 Universal House of Justice. Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World Order of Bahá’u’lláh, a
Statement to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America. p. 21.
30 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá, quoted in Universal House of Justice. Individual Rights and Freedoms in the World
Order of Bahá’u’lláh, a Statement to the Followers of Bahá’u’lláh in the United States of America. p.21.
31 Shoghi Effendi (1970). Dawn of a New Day: Messages to India 1923-1957. New Delhi, India:
Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 106.
32 Bahá’í International Community (February 1947) A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and
Rights. Presented to the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
Lake Success, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #47-0200).
33 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1970). The Secret of Divine Civilization. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. pp.
3-4.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
The Right to Education:
The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
BY TAHIRIH TAHRIRIHA-DANESH
For the Bahá’ís the world over, the most familiar case of obstruction of human
rights is that of the members of the community living in Iran, the birthplace of the
Bahá’í Faith.  Since the inception of the Bahá’í Era in 1844, the central figures and
their followers have faced continuous waves of religious persecution in various forms
and levels of intensity.  One of the most prominent features of these sixteen decades of
religious intolerance is the harassment of Bahá’í students and educators.  Amongst
the earliest state-sponsored actions of the post-revolution government in Iran, was the
expulsion of thousands of members and children of members of the Bahá’í community
from educational institutions. The following paper takes a brief look at this phenom-
enon.
The Islamic Dispensation began after the first encounter of Muhammad with
Archangel Gabriel. It happened on the night of the 26th of Ramadan in 610 AD,
in a cave on Mount Hirra in what is known today as Saudi Arabia. The next
twenty some years of Prophet Muhammad’s ministry were filled with victories,
wars and sacrifice. It is believed that he passed away in 632 AD and that imme-
diately upon his passing, the Islamic nation faced its first division into two
factions of Shiite and Sunni. This was a result of disagreement over the rightful
successorship of the community of the “Faithful.” The Sunnis began the Caliph-
ate regime starting with Abú Bakr, the father-in-law of Muhammad. The Shiite
Muslims went on under the leadership of eleven Imams following the first
Imam, ‘‘Alí, the son-in-law and cousin of the Prophet. The twelfth Imam,
Muhammad al-Mihdí, the five-year-old son of Imam Hasan al-Askari is said to
be hiding in a hole in Samarra1 in Arabia. It is believed that “though invisible,
he is living and ‘when the earth is full of cruelty he will appear and bring
justice.’”2

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Islam was introduced to Iran in 634 AD. Since then, Shiite Islam and the
Muslim clergy or ulamá have remained as integral parts of the Iranian commu-
nity and culture. The thirst for the return of the twelfth Imam has dominated
Muslim activities in Iran over the past centuries. Many believe that the twelfth
Imam will reappear one thousand years after his disappearance in 260 A.H.
(844 AD). Around the 1840’s many ulamá and their followers began their search
for the promised Qá’im in Iran. Among them were the renowned scholar Shaykh
Ahmad-i-Ahsá’í, his student Siyyid Kázim-i-Rashtí, and finally Mullá Husayn-i-
Bushru’i. The Bahá’ís believe that Mullá Husayn was the first man to have met
the Promised Qá’im, Siyyid ‘Alí Muhammad, or the Báb, in Shiraz, Iran. The Báb
revealed to Mullá Husayn that He was the bearer of a Divine Message from
God. The essence of His message was that the time had come to prepare for
the establishment of justice on earth. This was to be accomplished through the
teachings of one who was to come after Him. The Báb described His own
station as the herald to a second Divine Manifestation whom He referred to as
Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest.3
The Iranian church-state sent various individuals to investigate the claims of
the Báb. The most trusted and established amongst them left all worldly pos-
sessions and positions to follow His teachings. Similar to the early days of
other divinely-revealed religions, the power-seeking clergy and the govern-
ment felt threatened by the increasing popularity of the new faith, gained in a
short period of time. Thus, the political and religious leadership of Iran began
their opposition towards the Bábís. The promised Qá’im, along with Mullá
Husayn and thousands of followers, were killed at the hand of their fellow
countrymen who still awaited the coming of the twelfth Imam, and who were
encouraged by the ulamá to consider the Báb as an impostor.4 With the public
execution of the Báb, the ulamá and the government had hoped to put an end to
the Bábí movement. However, shortly after the death of the Bab, one of his
young followers named Mirzá Husayn ‘Alí-i-Núrí, a nobleman, claimed to be
Him Whom God Shall Make Manifest. He later came to be known as Bahá’u’lláh,
the Glory of God. The Bahá’ís around the world believe that He is the prom-
ised one of all ages, the hallmark of whose teachings is the belief that “The
fundamental purpose animating the Faith of God and His Religion is to safe-
guard the interests and promote the unity of the human race.”5
The persecution of the followers of the Bábí and later, the Bahá’í community
began with the beating of Mullá ‘Alí-i-Bastámí,6 one of the first followers of
the Báb, and has continued until today. Over the years various governmental and
non-governmental organizations all over the globe have condemned such crimes
against the Bahá’ís. After the establishment of the Universal Declaration on
Human Rights in 1948, the situation of the Bahá’ís in Iran saw no improvement.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Soon after this Declaration, the Iranian Bahá’ís suffered one of the most intense
waves of persecution under the leadership of Ayatu’llah Falsafí, and the elite in
the Iranian government and army in 1955.7 This anti-Bahá’í campaign and many
others are based on false accusations against the Bahá’í community. These accu-
sations accompany deep-rooted religious prejudice that “is, paradoxically, com-
bined with an almost universal ignorance of the religion’s nature, teachings, and
history.”8
Over the decades the clergy have encouraged all Muslims to shun the Bahá’ís
for they are considered as apostates and “unprotected infidels”9. By creating
this division they rule the mindset and beliefs of religious Iran against the
Bahá’ís. Historically, the clergy are the only ones with exclusive knowledge of
the Scripture, as they “forbade the translation of the Qur’án into Persian.”10
Thus, the clergy occupied the elite position of ruling on various issues includ-
ing the case of the Bahá’ís.
Since the inception of the Bahá’í Faith, but more explicitly after the 1979
Islamic revolution, the Bahá’ís have been accused of spying for various coun-
tries such as Russia, the United Kingdom, the United States, Spain and Israel.
The 1979 revolution expanded this list to include charges of ties with Zionism,
the Shah’s regime and SAVAK,11 thus portraying the Bahá’í community as an en-
tirely ungodly, dangerous and political sect of infidels. Therefore, Bahá’ís are
not mentioned in the Iranian constitution, even though they are the largest reli-
gious minority in that land. This act on the part of the government in Iran is a
proof of the Islamic Republic’s denial of the most basic human rights of the
Iranian Bahá’ís. In an official secret document, the government of Iran summa-
rizes their policies toward the Bahá’ís so “that their progress and development
shall be blocked.”12 This is in direct conflict with the spirit and articles of the
Universal Declaration on Human Rights. Furthermore, it demonstrates the fact
that “the campaign against the Bahá’ís is centrally directed by the Government.”13
Some Basic Islamic and Bahá’í Rights and Obligations
The treatment of the Bahá’í community since its early days by the Muslim
clergy can give the impression that Islam validates the oppression of the Bahá’ís
and the tenets of the Bahá’í Faith. However, as an example, the Qur’án and the
Aqdas, the holy books of Islam and the Bahá’í Faith, have much more in common
than in contradiction. Both books, much like other holy books proclaim the
oneness of God, the sacredness of human nature and establish various rights for
the individual. They outline a number of duties on the part of the individual and
society, thus setting the framework within which principles such as equality,
justice, freedom and unity are acknowledged and promoted. Among the first

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
words recorded in the Qur’án, and attributed to Muhammad are: “Read in the
name of your Lord who createth, Created man from a clot…”14
This sentence embodies the notion that human beings have both spiritual
and material attributes. To satisfy the needs of both dimensions, the Qur’án
attributes various rights and responsibilities to the body of believers. These
rights include freedom (from slavery) for all men based on the principle of
equality, the right to education, the right to belief, and Jihad, the right to defend
oneself and one’s beliefs. On the other hand the Qur’án prescribes a number of
responsibilities to its followers. These are based on the fundamental belief of
submission to the Will of God (Islam). These responsibilities include daily
prayers, fasting, charity and pilgrimage among others. They are necessary fac-
tors in the concept of Muslim community expressed as “brotherhood.” Muslims
were the first to organize themselves based on “religion, rather than blood.”15
Religious affiliation or membership is then the point of unity for Muslims.
This unity implies that by becoming a Muslim, human beings of various back-
grounds attain an equal station. Also, in submission and obedience to the Will
of God, lies the key to dignity: “We exalt in dignity whom We please; surely
your Lord is Wise, Knowing.”16
The Bahá’í Writings also emphasize that God is the creator of human be-
ings,17 whose nature has spiritual and material attributes.18 Bahá’ís also have
rights and obligations. Such rights and obligations include the right to educa-
tion, the right to freedom of religion, equal gender and racial rights, the right to
participate in the administrative affairs of the community, the right to prayer,
fasting, economic development and welfare, and consultation as the means to
resolve conflict.
The fundamental difference between the Bahá’í Writings and Islamic teach-
ings is the all-inclusive definition of unity. The unity of humankind in the Bahá’í
sense is not a given fact based on race, or religious affiliation. It is based on the
oneness of humanbeings as equal in station and yet diverse in the degree to
which each endeavors to develop his or her capacities. They are seen as “the
fingers of one hand, the members of one body.”19 The entire body of humanity
benefit from equal rights. Indeed, all humanbeings:
…at the time when they first become manifest in the world of the body, are equal, and
each is sanctified and pure. In this world, however, they will begin to differ one from
another, some achieving the highest station, some a middle one, others remaining at the
lowest stage of being. Their equal status is at the beginning of their existence; the differen-
tiation followeth their passing away.20

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
What is clear in this statement is that the process of life for a human being
contains a series of decisions and actions, which ultimately determine various
stations of individuals, not in this life, but in the life to come.
This paper is concerned with these decisions and actions in light of human
rights and obligations. The above quotation implies that the span of a human
lifetime is the period in which the individual has the choice to fulfill his or her
rights and obligations in order to develop. The manners in which this is carried
out are diverse. But the common element in this process is that of development
and progress of individuals and communities. The Bahá’í concept of community
moves beyond the Muslim notion of “brotherhood” based on religious affilia-
tion. It ultimately covers the globe, and embraces all members of the human
race without any exemption based on race, religion, gender, age or class. This
is reflected in one of the best-known statements of Bahá’u’lláh: “The earth is
but one country, and mankind its citizens.”21
The Foundation of Human Rights from a Bahá’í Perspective
The human rights implications of Bahá’u’lláh’s statement are great. By defin-
ing the globe as one single country, Bahá’u’lláh defines the framework for civil
and political rights, as well as economic, social and cultural rights of humanity.
One of the essential elements for both categories is the right of self-determi-
nation.22 In other words, members of the human community have the right to
freely pursue their common interests in political, economic, social, cultural
and civil development. This right of self-determination is one of the most
important because it is closely linked to human dignity and self-realization,
which sum up all human rights.23
Thus, Bahá’u’lláh defines the right of self-determination in its fullest sense.
By stating that the earth is as one country and the entire body of mankind its
citizens, He incorporates all (political, cultural, civil, economic, social) of the
planet’s resources to provide the highest (global) level possible for each
individual’s and each community’s right to self-determination. This directly af-
fects the self-realization of all members of the human race.
Self-realization from a Bahá’í perspective is based on an awareness of the
source and purpose of human rights. As noted earlier, “the source of human
rights is the endowment of qualities, virtues and powers which God has be-
stowed upon mankind…”24 at an equal level and at the beginning of life. The
purpose of human rights is “to fulfill the possibilities of this divine endow-
ment…”25 through each individual’s understanding of their rights and obliga-
tions according to a system of law. Such a vision is in harmony with the very

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
purpose of life on earth to prepare the soul for life after death. 26 However, a
Bahá’í-inspired perspective does not exclude a prosperous and happy life on
this earth.
The Bahá’í understanding of human nature as both material and spiritual calls
for a perspective on human rights that accommodates the development of both
aspects of a human being. This implies a system that is based on both material
and spiritual concepts of reality. Freedom, justice and peace, three concepts
called for in the first part of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights, are
examples that embody both material and spiritual realities. The Bahá’í Writ-
ings present all three in light of the comprehensive concept of unity. All mem-
bers of the human society are invited to “cherish and protect that unity of spirit
which is their highest mutual obligation.”27 Unity of spirit calls for “a conscious
awareness of human relationships.”28 Such consciousness is not only based upon
the social aspects of human relationships, but also the spiritual forces that ani-
mate them. In other words, human relationships are based upon a spiritual force,
that of unity.
Perhaps one of the implications of the declarations and covenants on human
rights that are often termed “universal” or “international,” is the need for an
international or universal code of law.
Such a need is the direct result of the historical setting in which the United
Nations and later the Declaration on Human Rights emerged after “the Nazi
atrocities of World War II.”29 The Nazis promoted what was called unity through
ethnic cleansing. In action, Nazism demonstrated uniformity and superiority of
the Aryan race, and not the unity and oneness of the entire human race. Bahá’u’lláh
clarifies the Bahá’í view that “The fundamental purpose animating the Faith of
God and His Religion is to safeguard the interests and promote the unity of the
human race.”30
Unity is viewed as a law that embodies material and spiritual realities. In
one way, it is expressed as attraction between elements. ‘Abdu’l-Bahá uses the
example of a flower to explain this law:
The law of attraction has brought together certain elements in the form of this beautiful
flower, but when that attraction is withdrawn from this centre the flower will decompose,
and, as a flower, cease to exist. So it is with the great body of humanity. The wonderful Law
of Attraction, Harmony and Unity, holds together this marvelous Creation.31
Based on ‘Abdu’l-Bahá’s explanation, the law of unity or attraction amongst
elements can apply to a human body. When this unity is extracted from the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
human body, the force of life is removed. After this point of separation be-
tween consciousness and the body, or absence of unity between the elements
of a human being, the body begins to decompose. If these remains are exam-
ined by a physician as to why they do not function, systematic deficiencies such
as a beating heart, the need for blood flow and other functional organs through-
out the body are identified. The physician sums up such deficiencies in one
sentence, that the body lacks the force of life. In other words, the law of unity
governing life in the human being is absent.
A similar process applies to the body of humanity, which has suffered much
through wars, crimes against humanity, genocide and other atrocities. It has now
identified the need for justice, an international code of law, peace, cooperation
and other conditions in which the global society can progress. Such needs re-
quire a harmonious and coordinated system to ensure proper function. Much
like the organs and individual cells of a human body, various organs and indi-
vidual members of society benefit from reciprocal relationships. The 1947
Bahá’í statement32 expresses these relationships, in light of the law of unity, as
rights and obligations. The difference between these two types of relation-
ships is that rights and obligations are the result of conscious acts. In reality,
through signing the Declaration on Human Rights the global society calls for
conscious acts that result in equal rights, freedom, justice and peace for all.
A Bahá’í-inspired perspective argues that equality, freedom, justice and peace
are closely linked with unity. In light of unity, equality is an awareness of the
inherent oneness of the station of all humanity, as creations of one God. Such
equality frees humanity from all previous ties of race, religion, class, creed or
gender. Accordingly, an understanding of the inherent oneness of mankind re-
sults in regarding rights and obligations as two sides of one coin. For the good
of one is the good of all and the good of all is the good of one. Thus, rights and
obligations become expressions of justice, as their reciprocity supports a just
system. In other words, if “The purpose of justice is the appearance of unity
among men,”33 then the just distribution of rights and obligations would involve
all and not only some individuals or institutions of the human community.
Education and Development
Following the very first words revealed to Prophet Muhammad on the dual
nature of man’s being, Gabriel continued to express what seems to be another
human right, the right to education. Gabriel revealed: “Read: And thy Lord is the
Most Bounteous, Who teacheth by the pen, teacheth man that which he knew
not.”34 A Bahá’í view on education is inspired by similar elements: first, the
right or obligation to education, and second, the need for a holistic approach to

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
education, to satisfy both the material and the spiritual needs of humanity. Thus,
education is the ideal path to development, as it encompasses both of the funda-
mental elements of reality. Furthermore, education helps to transform attitudes
and values, a main purpose of life and as the result of interactions between the
material and the spiritual.
During recent decades, the sciences have confirmed the principle of the
oneness of humanity. Accordingly, all education and development efforts are
most effective when the aims and themes of the curriculum are based on the
concept of unity and its underlying principle, the oneness of the human race.
Such a foundation, the Bahá’ís argue, will ease the tensions felt on a global scale
in regards to the illusive contradictions between global and local, or the spiri-
tual and material values in life.35
Article 26 of the Universal Declaration on Human Rights states: “Everyone
has the right to education.” According to the International Commission on Edu-
cation for the 21st Century, education must facilitate “the full development of
the human personality and the sense of its dignity.” Bahá’u’lláh emphasizes the
importance of education and development at a higher level: “Regard man as a
mine rich in gems of inestimable value. Education can, alone, cause it to reveal
its treasures, and enable mankind to benefit therefrom.”36 Hence, education
plays a central role in development of the inherent capabilities of a human
being and ultimately the society at large. In other words, the right to develop-
ment is embedded in the process of education.
A fundamental aspect of education is the transference of culture from one
generation to the next as part of the “full development of the human personal-
ity.”37 Education, when based on unity and diversity, helps to preserve and pro-
mote local cultural identity, and at the same time, enhance global culture. This
is achieved through sharing of values and practices cherished by each group. In
today’s world, and based on the International Bill of Rights, cultural preserva-
tion and progress is recognized as part and parcel of human rights and human
rights education.
One of the areas of inequality in education is based on gender. No doubt the
material development and advancement of women has been slower than that of
men. Some attribute this challenge to custom and religion.38 Such categoriza-
tions usually imply genetic-based inferiority in women, or the necessity of
gender-based social roles. Others view such inequality as a result of violation
of the right to education. The Bahá’í Writings clearly state: “The difference in
capability between man and woman is due entirely to opportunity and educa-
tion.”39 Therefore, education of both male and female members of the society
is a pre-requisite to the understanding and practice of equality.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Education also promotes the right to economic welfare, desperately needed
in various parts of the globe. One of the educational points that is often shared
from a Bahá’í perspective is viewing work and earning one’s livelihood, as
worship. It is through this holistic perception (inspiring the material through
the spiritual) that the motivation for progress in economic welfare is height-
ened. Accordingly, the aim for economic welfare is shaped differently by the
Bahá’í Writings. The aim is no longer that of competition or survival of the
fittest. Economic welfare must “equip the peoples and institutions of the world
with the means to achieve the real purpose of development; that is, the cultiva-
tion of the limitless potentialities latent in human consciousness.”40
In short, a Bahá’í-inspired view on human rights stands firm on the need for
education. In the words of the Bahá’í International Community, a program of
education based on the “recognition of the oneness of humanity, appreciation of
unity in diversity, and a sense of citizenship in a world community will be the
best guarantee of improved protection of human rights in the years to come.”41
The Right to Education: The Bahá’í Community in Iran
The Bahá’í community and the history of its development has been closely
linked with education. Once again, based on the Bahá’í perspective of the one-
ness and unity of the human race, education was not reserved for Bahá’ís, but for
all members of their communities. It has been through education that the basic
rights to live, serve humanity and contribute to collective advancement have
been cultivated. The history of development and contributions of the Bahá’í
community in Iran remains as an outstanding example. During the later years of
the 19th Century, at a time when the earliest members of the Bahá’í community
were persecuted, Iran suffered from one of the highest rates of illiteracy and
economic downfall. This was due to a number of factors. One was that accord-
ing to the Muslim clergy, girls were not to excel in education.42 During that
period, the highest level of education was the knowledge of the Qur’án, its
traditions and Islamic jurisprudence. Classes or maktabs were open to male
students alone.
However, one of the basic tenets of the Bahá’í Writings is the equality of
rights and educational opportunities for men and women, and this aroused much
opposition amongst the clergy and the regime. Such opposition led to the stran-
gulation of Tahirih, the Qurratu’l‘Ayn, one of the foremost learned women of
Iran in the late 1800’s 43 and continued well into the 1900’s when masses of Bahá’ís
were killed, Bahá’í teachers or students in public schools were persecuted and
Bahá’í schools were closed down. 44 This is the climate in which Bahá’ís began to
promote equal rights to education, and developed a number of schools for boys

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
and girls. Parallel to the persecution and exclusion of Bahá’ís from all parts of
society, and inspired by the importance of education, by 1973 the Bahá’ís were
the first to have “achieved a literacy rate of 100 per cent among women under
the age of 40, despite the national literacy rate of 15 per cent.”45
Such a high rate of literacy caused many Bahá’í women and men to lead the
development of the Iranian society and the world at large. Zhínús Ni’mat Mahmúdí
was the first female physicist in Iran. Manúchihr Hakím’s contributions were
received by the most outstanding circles and publications in the world of medi-
cine. General ‘Alaí’s management skills made Iran Air one of the most success-
ful airlines in the region. Buzurg ‘Alavíyán was one of the foremost Iranian
engineers. Bahá’í-inspired education and dedication made these and other pro-
fessionals, leading assets of the country. Their contributions to the Iranian soci-
ety stand as proofs of their loyalty to and a genuine belief in the cause of
advancement of the world of humanity.46
After the 1979 revolution, hundreds of Bahá’ís were killed and imprisoned,
and thousands were expelled from all official positions and their private and
public properties were confiscated or destroyed. This campaign against the
Bahá’ís also included the expulsion of masses of Bahá’í professionals and teachers
from employment, as well as Bahá’í students from schools and universities.
No official document has yet been released by the government of Iran to
explain the specific reason for the attacks. However, the 1991 “Iranian govern-
ment document on the Bahá’í question”47 summarizes the essential components
of the policies, which underlie this action of the government of Iran:
Educational and cultural status:
1. They can be enrolled in schools provided they have not identified them-
selves as Bahá’ís.
2. Preferably, they should be enrolled in schools, which have a strong and
imposing religious ideology.
3. They must be expelled from universities, either in the admission pro-
cess or during the course of their studies, once it becomes known that
they are Bahá’ís.
4. Their political (espionage) activities must be dealt with according to
appropriate Government laws and policies, and their religious and pro-
paganda activities should be answered by giving them religious and cul-
tural responses, as well as propaganda.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
5. Propaganda institutions (such as the Islamic Propaganda Organization) must
establish an independent section to counter the propaganda and religious
activities of the Bahá’ís.
6. A plan must be devised to confront and destroy their cultural roots out-
side the country.
It is clear that the systematic expulsion of Bahá’í students and teachers was a
direct result of such policies. What stands unclear is the nature of “political
(espionage) activities” of the Bahá’í community at large. The government of Iran
has not provided the international community with any evidence on the so-
called political activities of the Bahá’í community.
“As many observers have long pointed out, the Bahá’ís of Iran pose no threat
to the Government. Their religious principles call on them to obey the law, to
refrain from involvement in partisan politics and to practice non-violence. They
seek wholeheartedly to join with their countrymen in an atmosphere of reli-
gious freedom to help in the construction of a more just and prosperous Iranian
nation.”48
During the later years, the authorities in Iran have neglected legal proce-
dures and have failed to provide any form of written verdict to the victims of
persecutions. The execution of Ruhollah Rohani in July of 1998 was an example
of such shortcomings on the part of the local and national authorities.49 What is
of interest to the international community and the Bahá’ís around the world is
the plan that, as stated above in article 6, is “devised to confront and destroy”
the cultural roots of the Bahá’í community “outside the country.”
Article 26 of the Declaration on Human Rights states that ”Technical and
professional education shall be made generally available and higher education
shall be equally accessible to all on the basis of merit.”50 The expulsion of
Bahá’í students from universities according to article 3 of the above-mentioned
plan of the Islamic government in Iran, followed by the attacks on the Open
University51, stand as testimony to the systematic violation of rights of the Bahá’ís
in Iran. That the practical implications of the Islamic Republic’s understanding
of merit are based on religion requires that the Bahá’í youth can obtain education
only if their identity as Bahá’ís is repressed. Thus, Article 18 of the Declaration
on Human Rights is also violated. Now that the Islamic government plans to
destroy the cultural roots of the Bahá’ís outside Iran, it means that the political
agenda of the Islamic government of Iran remains above the civil and cultural
rights of the Bahá’ís world-over. Members of the Bahá’í community include
citizens of more than one hundred and seventy nations. Therefore, the persecu-
tion of the Bahá’ís is truly the concern of the world community.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Some of the more moderate clergy also voiced their opposition to the on-
going and illogical persecution of the Bahá’í community. The Iran Press Service
on the Worldwide Web reported the following on Áyatu’lláh Mehdi Haeri-
Khorshidi, during a demonstration outside the Iranian Embassy in Germany:
“He also denounced the government for not recognizing the right of the Iranian
Bahá’í to worshipping freely their faith. ‘Why should hundreds of thousands of
fellow Iranians be denied all basic rights, including that of a decent, open life,
just because they follow another religion?’”52 The article went on to affirm that
the Bahá’í Faith is:
…not recognized by the Ayatollahs as an official religion like Judaism, Christianism [ sic] or
the Zoroastrians, the Bahá’ís are ruthlessly suppressed under the present Islamic rule, their
temple burned down and destroyed, their situation being similar of that of the Jews [ sic] in
Hitler’s Germany. Tens of Bahá’ís have been executed or hanged, some of them as re-
cently as a month ago…53
Many individuals, government representatives and international organiza-
tions have launched a number of campaigns to put an end to the wrongs commit-
ted against the Bahá’ís in Iran. But the discriminations continue in one way or
another. At the Asian Conference Against Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xeno-
phobia and Related Intolerance held in Iran, representatives of the Bahá’í In-
ternational Community were not permitted to take part in the conference. “The
Bahai delegates were given the run-around by Iran authorities,” stated Mary
Robinson, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights “I took a strong stand
on this. It undermines all the values of the conference.”54
Conclusion
This paper explores a number of issues regarding the human rights of the
Bahá’ís in Iran. The fundamental spiritual teachings of Islam are in harmony with
those of the Bahá’í Faith and do not provide the grounds for persecution of any
religious minority. The persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran began soon after the
inception of the Bahá’í dispensation in 1844. The church-state system of Iran is
directly responsible for the systematic and centrally based persecution of the
Bahá’ís in that country since then.
The foundation of a Bahá’í-inspired perspective on human rights is that of
unity, with an aim to develop spiritual and material capabilities latent in human
nature. Such development is seen as the goal of human life and education is one
of the most effective means towards the achievement of this goal. Both the

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
Qur’án and the Sacred Scripture of the Bahá’í Faith endorse a right to education.
Therefore, preventing Bahá’ís from obtaining education is one of the most ef-
fective ways to ensure that their progress and development shall be blocked.
The members and friends of the worldwide Bahá’í community have launched
many campaigns to openly share the tenets of the Bahá’í Faith, its activities,
history and concerns. The hope of all those who appreciate the nature of the
message and aims of the Bahá’í Faith is to put an end to all crimes and atrocities
against humanity, including those committed against the Bahá’í community in
Iran.
Footnotes
Root, M. L. (1981). Tahirih, The Pure. Los Angeles, CA: Kalimat Press. p. 18.
Rassekh, N. (1998). The Báb—The Gate. Unpublished Paper.
For a discussion see: The Báb (1978). Selections from the Writings of the Bab. London: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust.
Historical records of the events in Nineteenth Century Persia left by Western scholars such as
Edward G. Browne, Comte de Gobineau and A.L.M. Nicholas testify to the atrocities commit-
ted by the government and ulamá to eradicate the infant community.
Bahá’u’lláh (1988). Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust., p. 215.
abíl-i-A‘zam [Muhammad-i-Zarandí], trans. and ed. Shoghi Effendi (1975). The Dawn-Breakers:
Nabíl’s Narratives of the Early Days of the Bahá’í Revelation. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p.
60.
For a discussion on the history of the persecution of the Bahá’ís in Iran see: Martin, J. D. (1993).
The Case of the Bahá’í Minority in Iran. In Bahá’í International Community. The Bahá’í World
1992-93. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications.
ibid. p. 247.
See Bahá’í International Communiy (2000). Update on the Situation of the Bahá’ís in Iran. In Bahá’í
International Communiy. The Bahá’í World 1999-2000. Haifa, Israel: World Centre Publications.
10 Root. p. 19.
11 The intelligence agency in Iran during the Pahlavi regime.
12 Golpayegani, S. M. (1991). The Supreme Revolutionary Cultural Council. www.bahai.org/article-1-
8-3-20.html.
13 Bahá’í International Community (1993). Iran’s Secret Blue Print For The Destruction Of The Bahá’í
Community. www.bahai.org/article-1-8-3-14.html.
14 Pickthall, M. M., trans. (1930). The Meaning of the Glorious Koran. New York, NY: Knopf. p. 96:
1-2.
15 Rassekh.
16 Shakir, H., trans. (1983). The Koran. www.hti.umich.edu/cgi/k/koran/koran-
idx?type=DIV0&byte=190943. The Cattle 6: 83.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
17 Bahá’u’lláh (1983). Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing
Trust. p. 70.
18 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1979). Paris Talks. London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 60.
19 Bahá’u’lláh (1992). The Kitab-i-Aqdas. London: Bahá’í World Centre. p. 40.
20 Abdu’l-Bahá (1978). Selections from the Writings of ‘Abdu’l-Bahá. London: Bahá’í World Centre.
p. 171.
Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 250.
Self-determination appears in the first article of  United Nations (1966). United Nations Interna-
tional Covenant on Civil and Political Rights; and, United Nations (1966). United Nations Interna-
tional Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Both in Ishay, M. R., ed. (1997) The
Human Rights Reader: Major Political Essays, Speeches, and Documents From the Bible to the
Present. New York, NY: Rutledge. pp. 424-440.
Matas, D. (1994). No More: The Battle Against Human Rights Violations. Toronto, Canada:
Dundurn Press Limited. p. 181.
24 Bahá’í International Community (February 1947) A Bahá’í Declaration of Human Obligations and
Rights. Presented to the first session of the United Nations Commission on Human Rights,
Lake Success, NY. (Bahá’í International Community Document #47-0200).
ibid.
26 For further discussion see Hornby, H. B. (1994). Lights of Guidance . New Delhi, India: Bahá’í
Publishing Trust. p. 360.
27 Bahá’í International Community. A Bahá’í Declaration on Human Rights and Obligations.
28 For further discussion see Danesh, H. B. (1998). CRES 520: The Concept of Unity. Unpublished
course materials. Wienacht, Switzerland: Landegg International University.
29 Matas. p. 163.
30 Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 215.
31 Abdu’l-Bahá. Paris Talks. p. 139.
32 Bahá’í International Community. A Bahá’í Declaration on Human Rights and Obligations.
33 Bahá’u’lláh (1988). Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh. Wilmette, IL: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 67.
34 Pickthall. p. 96: 1-2.
35 For a discussion on human rights education see Bahá’í International Community (March 1997).
United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education. Written statement to the 53rd session of the
UN Commission on Human rights (Agenda Item 9), Geneva, Switzerland. (Bahá’í International
Community  Document #97-0401).
36 Bahá’u’lláh. Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. p. 33.
37 United Nations. United Nations International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights.
Article 13.
38 Penn, M. L. (1999). Gender-Based Violence and Human Rights: A Global Perspective. Lanham,
MD: Rowman and Littlefield. p. 161.
39 ‘Abdu’l-Bahá (1982). Promulgation of Universal Peace . London: Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 135.
40 Bahá’í International Community (1998). Valuing Spirituality in Development: Initial Consider-
ations Regarding the Creation of Spiritually Based Indicators for Development. London: The
Bahá’í Publishing Trust. p. 20.
41 Bahá’í International Community. United Nations Decade for Human Rights Education.

B A H Á ’ Í - I N S P I R E D  P E R S P E C T I V E S  O N  H U M A N  R I G H T S
The Right to Education: The Case of the Bahá’ís in Iran
42 Root. p. 19.
43 For a discussion on the life and works of Tahirih see Muhammad Husayni, N. (2000). Hadrat-i-
Tahirih. Dundas, Canada: Association for Bahá’í Studies in Persian.
44 For a list of some of the attacks against the Bahá’ís see Zohoori, E. (1994). A Chronology of The
Persecutions of the Babis and Bahá’ís in Iran. In Zohoori, E. Names and Numbers: A Bahá’í History
Reference Guide. Jamaica: University Printers.
45 (June 1987) Shining Example in Cradle of Faith. Bahá’í News, no. 580. Wilmette, IL: National
Spiritual Assembly of the Bahá’ís of the United States. p.10.
46 Individuals named here amongst those Bahá’ís who were put to death in various ways during
the early years of the Islamic Republic of Iran. For further information see Bahá’í World Cen-
tre(1986). The Bahá’í World, vol. XVIII. Haifa, Israel: Bahá’í World Centre.
47 For further discussion see the Bahá’í World Web site at www.bahai.org.
48 Bahá’í International Community (1998). A Litmus Test for Iran. www.bahai.org/article-1-8-3-
16.html.
49 The White House, Office of the Press Secretary (23 July 1998). Statement by the Press Secretary.
usnsa-oea@usbnc.org.
50 Ishay, M. R. (1997). The United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. In Ishay. The Human Rights
Reader: Major Political Essays, Speeches, and Documents From the Bible to the Present. pp. 407-
412.
51 After the expulsion of Bahá’i students and teachers from institutions of higher learning, the
community organized itself to educate its youth. This resulted in what came to be known as the
Open University.
52 Iran Press Service (1998). www.iran-press-service.com.
53 ibid.
54 See: www.cnn.com/2001/WORLD/meast/02/23/un.iran.racism.ap/index.html.