THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

2001-04-04

To all National Spiritual Assembliesdear b aháí f

The international Teaching center has sought elucidation of issues con-

cerning the attitude of bahá’ís and bahá’í institutions towards those who

have withdrawn from the faith. in response, we have provided the following

comments, which are being sent to you for your information and guidance.

you are free to share this letter with the believers under your jurisdiction as

you wish.

one’s beliefs are an internal and personal matter; no person or institution

has the right to exert compulsion in matters of belief. Since there is a wide range of meanings in the Sacred Scriptures, there are bound to be differ-

ent ways in which individuals understand many of the bahá’í teachings.

Nevertheless, it is necessary for the viability of the bahá’í community that

its members share a common understanding of essentials. This implies a commitment by each member to function within the framework established by such an understanding.

This framework includes, for example, cognizance of the existence of a

divine revelation brought by bahá’u’lláh, the manifestation of god for this 354.3

355.1

355.2

355.3

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

779age, and acceptance of the two primary duties prescribed by god, as ex-

pressed in the kitáb-i-Aqdas, the most holy book of the bahá’í revelation.

These are: “recognition of him who is the dayspring of his revelation

and the fountain of his laws,” and observance of “every ordinance of him

who is the desire of the world. These twin duties,” the Aqdas firmly states,

“are inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other.”355-1

‘Abdu’l-b ahá, whom bahá’u’lláh appointed as the interpreter of his

writings, reaffirms these fundamentals of bahá’í belief. in his will and

Testament h e writes: “This is the foundation of the belief of the people of

bahá (may my life be offered up for them): ‘h is holiness, the exalted one

(the báb), is the manifestation of the unity and oneness of god and the

forerunner of the Ancient beauty. his holiness the Abhá beauty (may my

life be a sacrifice for his steadfast friends) is the Supreme manifestation of

god and the dayspring of his most divine essence. All others are servants

unto h im and do h is bidding.’”355-2

it is within the context of these statements of basic belief and practice

that membership in the bahá’í faith is determined. Acknowledging that the

matter of ascertaining the qualification of a true believer is a delicate and

complex question, Shoghi effendi, the appointee of ‘Abdu’l-b ahá as guard-

ian of the cause and authorized interpreter of its teachings, set down for

Spiritual Assemblies the principal factors that must be taken into consider-

ation before deciding whether a person may be regarded as a true believer or

not: “f ull recognition of the station of the forerunner, the Author, and the

T rue exemplar of the bahá’í cause, as set forth in ‘Abdu’l-b ahá’s Testament;

unreserved acceptance of, and submission to, whatsoever has been revealed

by their pen; loyal and steadfast adherence to every clause of our beloved’s

sacred will; and close association with the spirit as well as the form of the

present day b ahá’í administration throughout the world. . . .”355-3

viewed in the light of these texts, a statement that one wishes to with-

draw from the bahá’í community, but not from the faith, is seen to be

self-contradictory. The bahá’í community must be seen in its proper light.

The necessity for its existence as an inseparable element of the faith itself

355-1. kA, ¶1.

355-2. w T, p. 19.

355-3. bA, p. 90.355.4

355.5

355.6

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

780is explained by the stated purpose of the revelation of bahá’u’lláh: to bring

about a divine civilization. The embodiment of that purpose and of the

spirit breathed by bahá’u’lláh into the world is the order he has ordained,

to which he refers in the most holy book in asserting: “The world’s equilib-

rium hath been upset through the vibrating influence of this most great, this

new world order. mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through

the agency of this unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.”

355-4

Normally, a Spiritual Assembly is called upon to make a decision in such

matters only as the result of an action by an individual, either in declaring

his belief in bahá’u’lláh, or in stating that he wishes to withdraw from the

faith, or, very rarely, in persistently promoting concepts which are clearly

inconsistent with the essentials of membership outlined above.

Acceptance of the faith is the voluntary act of an individual and is reg-

istered by the appropriate bahá’í institution unless it has good reason not

to do so. likewise, a bahá’í is free to leave the faith voluntarily. when a

member of the community informs the Assembly of his wish to withdraw,

it would try to help him overcome whatever problems seem to be the cause

of his desiring to take such a step. if he persists in his intention, the As-

sembly would normally accept the withdrawal unless there were grounds for

suspecting that he is acting insincerely out of some ulterior motive, such as

to violate a b ahá’í law with impunity.

in spite of loving encouragement given by their Assemblies, not all

bahá’ís are active in the work of the community. This does not, of course,

necessarily indicate withdrawal. An Assembly should carefully distinguish between those who are not active but still identify themselves with the faith,

and those whose inactivity indicates complete lack of interest and a wish to

have nothing more to do with the cause.

once a person’s resignation from the faith has been accepted, his status

is that of a non-b ahá’í and—except as noted below—his relationship with

bahá’í institutions and individual believers is the same as that of any other

non-b ahá’í. As in all human relationships, the closeness of this connection,

and the warmth of friendship, depend upon personal factors.

Sometimes, after a person’s withdrawal from the cause has been accept-

ed, it becomes evident that his statements were insincere and were made

355-4. gwb, no. 70.1.355.7

355.8

355.9

355.10

355.11

2000–2001  •  T h e  T W e lv e  m o n Th  Pl a n

781merely in order to evade bahá’í law. The Assembly need not take any overt

action in such a case, but would note the matter in its records. in other

words, it would have to be cautious about accepting a subsequent declara-

tion of belief from this individual until satisfied that it is made in good faith. Also, depending upon the circumstances, the Assembly might require him to rectify the action, taken in violation of bahá’í law, which was the

motive for his withdrawing from the f aith.

An analogous situation arises when a person who is engaged in some

activity which he suspects would result in his being declared a covenant-

breaker withdraws from the faith under the impression that this step would

the withdrawal provides adequate protection of the community from the individual in question. however, if he persists, following his withdrawal, in

trying to undermine the covenant or joins forces with covenant-breakers,

he may be judged to have broken the covenant, and the friends would be

told to have no association with him. each such case would be considered

in the context of its specific circumstances.

There is one other condition which should be mentioned. There are cer-

tain former bahá’ís whose actions do not necessarily constitute covenant-

breaking, but are seriously destructive. where such people have shown that

they are impervious to explanations or exhortations from the bahá’í institu-

tions, continued association with them can be burdensome and can exert a spiritually corrosive effect on the faith of believers. in such cases the head of

the f aith may simply advise the b ahá’ís to leave them to their own devices.

Thus, there are exceptional cases in which a former believer’s spiritual at-

titude to the faith may, to various degrees, create an estrangement between

him and the bahá’ís. in general, however, a person who has withdrawn from

the faith is regarded as being among the generality of humankind with

whom the b ahá’ís are enjoined to associate “in joy and fragrance.”

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

355.13

355.14

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

782356

The Lesser Peace

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]