THE UNIVERSAL HOUSE OF JUSTICE

1986-10-31

To all National Spiritual Assemblies

dear b ahá’í f riends,

we are saddened to receive the following information from i ran. . . .

mr. íraj mihdí-Nizhád, 59 years old, a prominent bahá’í in bandar-

‘Abbás, was stabbed to death by a group of people. Sixteen knife wounds were observed on his body. mr. mihdí-Nizhád had been a civil servant and

was dismissed from his job because of his faith, like thousands of other bahá’ís. out of necessity, he became a peddler, selling various articles in the

streets in order to earn an income. following the murder, his son-in-law and

his son were detained for 48 hours by the police for questioning. however, 8.7

9.1

9.2

1986–1992  •  T h e  S i x  Y e a r  P l a n

17later on, the murderers were apprehended. They belonged to a family, one

of whose members had studied the bahá’í faith and expressed acceptance

of it. it was some of the fanatical members of that family who attacked mr.

mihdí-Nizhád, a prominent and active b ahá’í.

The police assembled a file of evidence related to the crime and sent

it to the Attorney-g eneral. however, the Attorney-g eneral was apparently

notified in advance by the members of the murderers’ family, who may even have threatened him. As a result, before the file reached his desk he left his office, instructing his subordinate to refuse to accept the file on the pretext that the Attorney-g eneral had gone on leave. in the meantime, the

police, who had correctly carried out their duty in preparing the file, must have subsequently received instructions. As a consequence, when the file was returned to them, they indicated that no action would be taken, and

even advised mr. m ihdí-Nizhád’s family to let the matter drop.

The members of the family, however, have not given up their efforts to

pursue their complaint, although it is fraught with danger and there is very

little prospect of bringing the murderers to justice.

mr. þabíbu’lláh muhtadí, 70 years of age, a retired army officer and a

graduate of law school, who had been out of the country during the revolu-

tion, returned to iran after the revolution to take possession of his proper-

ties and prevent them from being confiscated. however, after he had sold

one of his properties in iran, he was immediately arrested, and the proceeds

of the sale were taken from him. he was put in prison for five years, and all

of his other properties were later confiscated. After his release, he was pursu-

ing his case with the authorities to try and regain the properties which had

been unjustly taken from him. on 27 August he was killed instantly by a

blow to his head. Apparently, similar acts are being perpetrated by fanatical elements, emboldened by the lack of action on the part of the government.

They are sure that even if the crime is discovered, a muslim will not be

punished by law if he has committed a crime against a b ahá’í.

with loving b ahá’í greetings,

Department  of tHe secretariat9.3

9.4

9.5

m eS Sa g e S f ro m  Th e  u n i v e r Sa l  h o u Se  o f  j u S Ti c e

1810

Celebrating Christmas

[signed: The Universal House of Justice]