* * *Days of Remembrance
Selections from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh for Bahá’í Holy Days
Preface
Naw-Rúz
1. “He is the Almighty. Praised be Thou, O my God …”
2. “I am the Most Holy, the Most Great, the Most Glorious …”
3. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Mighty, the Most Exalted …”
4. “He is the Ever-Living, the Ever-Abiding, the Self-Subsisting …”
5. “He is the Sovereign King, the Holy of Holies …”
Riḍván
6. “In the name of Him Who hath cast His splendour …”
7. “He it is Who is established upon this luminous Throne …”
8. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious. Praise be to Thee, O my God …”
9. “On the ﬁrst day that the Ancient Beauty …”
10. “The day-star of words, dawning above the horizon …”
11. “He is the Manifest, the Hidden, the All-Glorious …”
12. Ḥúr-i-‘Ujáb (Tablet of the Wondrous Maiden)
13. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious. Praise be to Thee, O Thou our Lord …”
14. “In the name of God, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful! …”
15. “Praise be to Thee, O my God …”
16. “In the name of God, Who hath cast His splendour …”
17. “In the name of God, the Almighty, the Unconstrained! …”
18. “In the name of God, the Most Glorious! …”
19. “He is God. Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord my God! …”
20. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious. All praise be to Thee …”
21. Lawḥ-i-‘Áshiq va Ma‘shúq (Tablet of the Lover and the Beloved)
22. “In Thy name, the Most Wondrous, the Most Glorious! …”
23. Súriy-i-Qalam (Súrih of the Pen)
24. “He is the Ever-Abiding. It is the Festival of Riḍván …”
25. “Another letter of thine …”
Declaration of the Báb
26. Lawḥ-i-Náqús (Tablet of the Bell)
27. Lawḥ-i-Ghulámu’l-Khuld (Tablet of the Immortal Youth)
28. “He is the Ever-Abiding, the Most Exalted, the Most Great …”
Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh
29. Súriy-i-Ghuṣn (Tablet of the Branch)
30. Lawḥ-i-Rasúl (Tablet to Rasúl)
31. Lawḥ-i-Maryam (Tablet to Maryam)
32. Kitáb-i-‘Ahd (Book of the Covenant)
33. The Tablet of Visitation
Martyrdom of the Báb
34. “Give ear, O My servant, unto that which is being sent down …”
35. Excerpt from the Súriy-i-Nuṣḥ (Súrih of Counsel)
36. Excerpt from the Súriy-i-Mulúk (Súrih of the Kings)
37. Excerpt from the Lawḥ-i-Salmán I (Tablet to Salmán I)
38. Excerpt from the Súriy-i-Dhikr (Súrih of Remembrance)
39. Excerpt from the Súriy-i-Aḥzán (Súrih of Sorrows)

* * *Birth of the Báb
40. “In the name of the One born on this day …”
41. “He is the Eternal, the One, the Single …”
Birth of Bahá’u’lláh
42. Lawḥ-i-Mawlúd (Tablet of the Birth)
43. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Exalted, the Most Great …”
44. “He is God. O concourse of ardent lovers! …”
45. “He is the Most Holy, the Most Great. This is the month …”
Key to Passages Translated by Shoghi Effendi
Notes
Preface
The observance of holy days occupies a central place in every religion. Through their
commemoration, the calendar year becomes the stage on which the signal events associated with
the life and ministry of the divine Manifestations of God are annually remembered and honoured.
This remembrance has both a personal dimension, providing a time for reﬂection on the
signiﬁcance of these events, and a social dimension, helping to deepen the identity and foster the
cohesion of the community.
The coming of each Manifestation of God brings renewal and revitalization: “old things are
passed away” and “all things are become new”.1 By His authority, former laws are abrogated and
the manners and customs of the previous Dispensation are reformed. Through the creative power
of Divine Revelation, fresh life is instilled into hearts and souls:
Reﬂect thou, how, in one hand, He hath, by His mighty grasp, turned the earth of knowledge
and understanding, previously unfolded, into a mere handful, and, on the other, spread out a
new and highly exalted earth in the hearts of men, thus causing the freshest and loveliest
blossoms, and the mightiest and loftiest trees to spring forth from the illumined bosom of
man.2
This re-creation and revitalization of all things is reﬂected in the introduction of a new
calendar and the designation of new holy days which recast the rhythms of communal life.
The Bahá’í calendar, known as the Badí‘ calendar, was introduced by the Báb and
subsequently conﬁrmed by Bahá’u’lláh, Who ﬁxed its commencement at the year of the Báb’s
declaration, 1844 (A.H. 1260). As the Bahá’í Era was inaugurated by twin Founders, the Bahá’í
Holy Days include events pertaining to the birth, declaration, and passing of both Bahá’u’lláh and
the Báb. In the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, the principal repository of the laws of His Revelation, Bahá’u’lláh
designates the two “Most Great Festivals”: Riḍván, “the King of Festivals”, commemorating the
declaration of His prophetic mission during a period of twelve days, three of which are observed as
Holy Days, and the Declaration of the Báb, the event that initiates the Bahá’í Era. Also named as
festivals in that same Book are Naw-Rúz and the anniversaries of the Birth of the Báb and of
Bahá’u’lláh. The anniversary of the Martyrdom of the Báb was commemorated as a Holy Day
during the lifetime of Bahá’u’lláh, and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá added the observance of the Ascension of
Bahá’u’lláh.
The present volume offers forty-ﬁve selections from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh revealed
speciﬁcally for, or otherwise relating to, these nine Holy Days. The selections represent different
revelatory modes, each reﬂecting facets of the greatness, the preciousness, and the peerless nature
of this Day in which all the promises and prophecies of the past have been fulﬁlled—this sacred
Day “whereon God hath made His own Self known and revealed it unto all who are in the
heavens and on earth”. Some of the Tablets and excerpts presented in the volume are addressed to
the body of Bahá’u’lláh’s followers and are expressed in a celebratory and uplifting tone,

occasionally with repeated refrains, while others were revealed to individual believers, sometimes
with a mention of the speciﬁc circumstances of their revelation or the names of the recipients.
Many are among His best-known works and have long been familiar to readers of His Writings in
the original languages.
Eight of the selections were previously translated by Shoghi Effendi and published in Prayers
and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh and Gleanings from the Writings of Bahá’u’lláh. A table listing these
and other passages translated by Shoghi Effendi can be found at the end of the book. The
remainder of the selections are, for the most part, published here for the ﬁrst time in English. The
current translations endeavour to afford a glimpse of the poetic tone of these celebrated Texts,
even though they can never convey their full beauty.
It is hoped that this volume will uplift the hearts and souls of the followers of the Blessed
Beauty throughout the world and will enrich the gatherings they hold in commemoration of those
days that stand apart from all other days through their association with Him and His Herald.

Naw-Rúz
1
He is the Almighty.
Praised be Thou, O my God, that Thou hast ordained Naw-Rúz as a festival unto those who have
observed the Fast for love of Thee and abstained from all that is abhorrent unto Thee. Grant, O my
Lord, that the ﬁre of Thy love and the heat produced by the Fast enjoined by Thee may inﬂame
them in Thy Cause, and make them to be occupied with Thy praise and with remembrance of
Thee.
Since Thou hast adorned them, O my Lord, with the ornament of the Fast prescribed by Thee,
do Thou adorn them also with the ornament of Thine acceptance, through Thy grace and bountiful
favour. For the doings of men are all dependent upon Thy good-pleasure, and are conditioned by
Thy behest. Shouldst Thou regard him who hath broken the Fast as one who hath observed it,
such a man would be reckoned among them who from eternity had been keeping the Fast. And
shouldst Thou decree that he who hath observed the Fast hath broken it, that person would be
numbered with such as have caused the Robe of Thy Revelation to be stained with dust, and been
far removed from the crystal waters of this living Fountain.
Thou art He through Whom the ensign “Praiseworthy art Thou in Thy works” hath been
lifted up, and the standard “Obeyed art Thou in Thy behest” hath been unfurled. Make known this
Thy station, O my God, unto Thy servants, that they may be made aware that the excellence of
all things is dependent upon Thy bidding and Thy word, and the virtue of every act is conditioned
by Thy leave and the good-pleasure of Thy will, and may recognize that the reins of men’s doings
are within the grasp of Thine acceptance and Thy commandment. Make this known unto them,
that nothing whatsoever may shut them out from Thy Beauty, in these days whereon the Christ
exclaimeth: “All dominion is Thine, O Thou the Begetter of the Spirit (Jesus)!” and Thy Friend
(Muḥammad) crieth out: “Glory be to Thee, O Thou the Best-Beloved, for that Thou hast
uncovered Thy Beauty, and written down for Thy chosen ones what will cause them to attain
unto the seat of the revelation of Thy Most Great Name, through which all the peoples have
lamented except such as have detached themselves from all else except Thee, and set themselves
towards Him Who is the Revealer of Thyself and the Manifestation of Thine attributes.”
He Who is Thy Branch and all Thy company, O my Lord, have broken this day their fast, after
having observed it within the precincts of Thy court, and in their eagerness to please Thee. Do
Thou ordain for Him, and for them, and for all such as have entered Thy presence in those days all
the good Thou didst destine in Thy Book. Supply them, then, with that which will proﬁt them, in
both this life and the life beyond.
Thou, in truth, art the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
2
I am the Most Holy, the Most Great, the Most Glorious.
Praise be to Thee, O my God, that Thou hast ordained this day as a festival unto the favoured
among Thy servants and the sincere among Thy loved ones. Thou hast called this day by that
Name whereby all created things have been subdued and the breezes of Thy Revelation have been
wafted between earth and heaven, a Name through which all that hath been recorded in Thy Holy
Books and Sacred Scriptures hath been made manifest, and which Thy Messengers and Thy
Chosen Ones have foretold, that all men might be made ready to behold Thee, to turn towards the
ocean of Thy reunion, to stand before the seat of Thy throne, and to hear Thy wondrous call from
the Dayspring of Thine invisible Self and the Dawning-Place of Thine Essence.
I yield Thee praise, O Lord my God, that Thou hast fulﬁlled Thy testimony, completed Thy
favour, established upon the throne of Divine Revelation Him Who proclaimed Thy oneness and1
2
3
4
5
1
2

Thy unity, and summoned all humanity to appear before Him. Amongst the people are those who
have turned towards Him, attained His presence, and quaffed the choice wine of His Revelation. I
beseech Thee by Thy sovereign might which hath dominion over all things, and by Thy bounty
which embraceth the entire creation, to enable Thy loved ones to sever themselves from all except
Thee and to ﬁx their gaze upon the horizon of Thy grace. Assist them, then, to arise to serve Thee,
that they may evince whatsoever Thou hast desired in Thy realm and may unfurl the banners of
Thy victory in Thy land. Thou, verily, art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Sovereign Protector,
the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
I yield Thee praise, O Lord my God, that Thou hast made this prison to be a throne for Thy
kingdom, a heaven for Thy heavens, a dayspring for Thy daysprings, a dawning-place for Thy
dawns, a source for the outpourings of Thy bounty, and a spirit of life unto the bodies of Thy
creatures. I entreat Thee to aid Thy chosen ones to act in accordance with Thy good-pleasure.
Sanctify them, then, O my God, from whatsoever may soil the hem of their garments in Thy days.
Thou seest, O Lord, in certain lands, that which runneth counter to Thy pleasure, and Thou
beholdest those who claim to love Thee committing the very deeds that Thine enemies have
committed. Purify them, O Lord, with the living waters wherewith Thou hast puriﬁed the well-
favoured amongst Thy people and the sincere amongst Thy servants. Purge them, moreover, from
whatsoever may tarnish the fair name of Thy Cause in Thy lands or veil the people of Thy cities
from Thy recognition.
I implore Thee, O Lord, by Thy Name that transcendeth all other names, to guard them from
following the path of self and passion, that all may unite around that which Thou hast
commanded in Thy Book. Make them, then, to be hands of Thy Cause, that through them Thy
verses may be spread abroad throughout Thine earth and the emblems of Thy holiness may be
manifested amidst Thy people. Potent art Thou to do as Thou pleasest. There is none other God
but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
3
He is the Most Holy, the Most Mighty, the Most Exalted.
Praise be unto Thee, O Thou Who art the Lord of the world and the Ruler of the nations! I testify
that Thou hast from eternity been sanctiﬁed above the mention of all created things and exalted
beyond the loftiest descriptions of Thy creatures. Whensoever Thy devoted servants sought to
ascend unto the station of Thy recognition, the hosts of Thy knowledge barred their way; and
whensoever Thy near ones desired to gain admittance to the heaven of Thy nearness, the
overpowering majesty of Thine utterance kept them back. We bear witness that the loftiest of the
divine names are but servants at Thy door, and that their most glorious manifestations bow down
before Thy countenance and are humbled in Thy presence. Thou art, in truth, He Who can neither
be described in letters, nor evoked by words, nor even contained within the hidden meanings they
conceal. For these are all circumscribed by the inherent limitations of speech which characterize
all the utterances of the peoples of the world.
Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the mention of every soul and the
understanding of every heart! Exalted, immeasurably exalted, art Thou above the description of
anyone save Thyself and beyond every conception of Thy creatures! Were Thine own
Manifestations to soar upon the wings of the seen and the unseen, yet would they fail to attain
unto the ﬁrst effulgence shining from the horizon of Thy most exalted Countenance and the
dawning-place of Thy most sublime Revelation. And were the Exponents of Thy Lordship enabled
to ascend for as long as the kingdoms of earth and heaven endure, yet would they be forever
powerless to draw nigh unto the Day-Star of Thy beauty.
Blessed be the one who comprehendeth Thine enduring reality and the evanescence of all
else but Thee, and who acknowledgeth Thy sovereign authority and the powerlessness of all save
Thyself. And as the evanescence of all things is established before the surging ocean of Thy
remembrance, O King of all names, it likewise becometh evident that their every mention and
description falleth short of Thy might and grandeur and ill beseemeth Thy loftiness and power.3
4
1
2
3

And yet in spite of this, O my God, Thou hast, out of the wonders of Thy grace and muniﬁcence
and as a token of Thy bounty and Thy favour, enjoined upon all to make mention of Thee and to
praise Thee, and hast accepted their gloriﬁcation of Thee out of Thy grace and generosity.
Wherefore doth Thine own Self call on Thy Self and Thy very Essence invoke Thine Essence on
behalf of Thy lovers who have borne every hardship in Thy path and every adversity out of love
for Thee and contentment with Thy good-pleasure, in this blessed day which Thou hast made to
be a festival for the inmates of Thy kingdom and for those who have kept the Fast by Thy
command and obeyed Thy resistless decree.
Exalted be this blessed and glorious day which Thou hast designated by that beloved Name
which is both hidden and manifest, and which, when it shone forth above the horizon of eternity,
the Divine Lote-Tree called out, saying: “By God! The Lord of creation hath come, Whom no name
can describe.” Whereupon Paradise was set astir and proclaimed with joy and fervour: “O
concourse of the world! He hath come, round Whom circle the Daysprings of the All-Merciful, the
Manifestations of the All-Praised, and the Dawning-Places of inspiration.” And all things cried
aloud: “This is that Tablet with which the kingdom of creation hath been adorned and through
which the gate leading unto the Divine Presence hath been ﬂung open unto all who are in heaven
and on earth.” Happy the one who hath forsaken every desire and hath drawn nigh unto the One
Whose reality no word or utterance can convey.
By God! This is the Day whereon from the murmur of the waters can be heard: “No God is
there but Him, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting”, and from the whispering of whose breezes
can be heard: “No God is there but Him, the Almighty, the Best-Beloved”, and from the rustling of
whose trees can be heard: “No God is there but Him, the Most Powerful, the Ever-Giving, the All-
Glorious, the All-Loving”, and beyond them, from the Tongue of Grandeur can be heard: “This is
the Day of the appearance of Him Who is manifest yet hidden, Who is visible yet concealed.
Hasten unto Him, O ye who are the daysprings of the divine names, and draw nigh unto Him, O
ye who dwell in the kingdom of creation, with hearts that have been puriﬁed from superstitions
and vain imaginings and sanctiﬁed from the idle talk of men!”
Immeasurably exalted is the state of Thy loved ones who have clung to the cord of Thy
command, held fast to the hem of Thine ordinances, uttered that which hath been permitted unto
them in Thy Tablets, transgressed not the bounds ordained in Thy Book, and spoken out in Thy
lands with wisdom as decreed in the scrolls of Thy bounty and the epistles of Thy grace. O Lord!
Assist them to arise for the triumph of Thy Cause through what Thou hast expounded unto them
with Thy most exalted Pen and what Thou hast instructed them in certain of Thy Tablets. O Lord!
Leave them not to themselves, but keep them safe through Thy sovereignty and power and assist
them through Thy might and bounty.
O Lord! They are Thy servants and bondsmen who have believed in Thee and have drawn
nigh unto the heaven of Thy bounty. Suffer them not to be deprived of the tokens of Thy tender
mercies in Thy days; neither do thou withhold from them the fragrance of the roses of Thy
wisdom. Guide them then, O my God, to the ocean of Thy good-pleasure, that in Thy Name they
may immerse themselves therein, and that they may not be saddened by that which their own
minds have conceived, nor grieved by all that they have witnessed in Thy path. Verily Thou art
the All-Powerful One Whose might every powerful one hath recognized, Whose sovereignty every
possessor of majesty hath acknowledged, before the waves of the ocean of Whose knowledge
every learned one confesseth his ignorance, and before the evidences of Whose power every soul
endued with strength admitteth his helplessness.
Thou art the One, O my God, to Whom every name is abashed to be related, and in Whose
presence all things shrink for shame from being mentioned. From eternity Thou hast dwelt in
those transcendent heights that are exalted above all mention and description. How great are Thy
sovereignty and Thy power and how mighty Thy grandeur!—this, though all things acknowledge
that Thou art entirely sanctiﬁed from, and immeasurably exalted above, all but Thine own Self.
Thou hast subdued the entire world through a single Word that hath been related to the kingdom
of Thine utterance and from which the fragrance of the robe of Thy Command hath been wafted.4
5
6
7
8

O Lord of all being and Educator of all things visible and invisible! Grant us ears that are pure,
hearts that are sanctiﬁed, and eyes that see, so that we may discover the sweetness of Thine
enthralling utterance, may ﬁx our gaze upon Thy supreme horizon, and may come to know
whatever hath been sent down through Thy bounty, O Thou Who art the King of Names! Kindle
then the ﬁre of Thy love in Thy lands, that the hearts of Thy creatures may be set ablaze thereby,
that they may turn towards Thee, may recognize Thy unity and acknowledge Thy oneness. O
Lord of all names! Rend asunder before their faces the veils of glory, and make known unto them
the excellence of this Day which hath been adorned with Thy Name and illumined with the light
of Thy Countenance. Thou, verily, art He Whom the good works of the people can never exalt nor
their evil deeds deter, Whom the ascendancy of the rulers cannot humble nor the power of the
mighty vanquish. Thou doest through Thy sovereignty whatsoever Thou willest. No God is there
but Thee, the All-Powerful, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Send down, then, upon Thy loved ones, O my God, from the heaven of Thy bounty that which
will cause them to ﬁx their gaze upon Thee and to act in accordance with Thy will and behest.
Ordain for them, then, what will proﬁt them and preserve them, what will draw them nigh and set
them free. Verily Thou art their Lord, their Creator, and their Helper. No God is there but Thee, the
Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.
I beseech Thee, moreover, O my God, to unite the hearts of Thy loved ones and to join them
together in harmony and fellowship in Thy Cause, that naught may appear from them that would
ill beseem them in Thy days. Thou, verily, art the All-Powerful, the Most Exalted, the Most High,
the Most Great. Praise be to God, the Lord of the worlds!
4
He is the Ever-Living, the Ever-Abiding, the Self-Subsisting.
God testiﬁeth to the unity of His Godhood and to the singleness of His own Being. On the throne
of eternity, from the inaccessible heights of His station, His tongue proclaimeth that there is none
other God but Him. He Himself, independently of all else, hath ever been a witness unto His own
oneness, the revealer of His own nature, the gloriﬁer of His own essence. He, verily, is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty, the Beauteous.
He is supreme over His servants, and standeth over His creatures. In His hand is the source of
authority and truth. He maketh men alive by His signs, and causeth them to die through His
wrath. He shall not be asked of His doings, and His might is equal unto all things. He is the
Potent, the All-Subduing. He holdeth within His grasp the empire of all things, and on His right
hand is ﬁxed the Kingdom of His Revelation. His power, verily, embraceth the whole of creation.
Victory and overlordship are His; all might and dominion are His; all glory and greatness are His.
He, of a truth, is the All-Glorious, the Most Powerful, the Unconditioned.
Praise be to Thee, to Whom the tongues of all created things have, from eternity, called, and
yet failed to attain the heaven of Thine eternal holiness and grandeur. The eyes of all beings have
been opened to behold the beauty of Thy radiant countenance, yet none hath succeeded in gazing
on the brightness of the light of Thy face. The hands of them that are nigh unto Thee have, ever
since the foundation of Thy glorious sovereignty and the establishment of Thy holy dominion,
been raised suppliantly towards Thee, yet no one hath been able to touch the hem of the robe that
clotheth Thy Divine and sovereign Essence. And yet none can deny that Thou hast ever been,
through the wonders of Thy generosity and bounty, supreme over all things, art powerful to do all
things, and art nearer unto all things than they are unto themselves.
Far be it, then, from Thy glory that anyone should gaze on Thy wondrous beauty with any
eye save Thine own eye, or hear the melodies proclaiming Thine almighty sovereignty with any
ear except Thine own ear. Too high art Thou exalted for the eye of any creature to behold Thy
beauty, or for the understanding of any heart to scale the heights of Thine immeasurable
knowledge. For should the birds of the hearts of them that are nigh unto Thee be ever enabled to
soar as long as Thine own overpowering sovereignty can endure, or to ascend as long as the
empire of Thy Divine holiness can last, they shall, in no wise, be able to transcend the limitations9
10
11
1
2
3
4

which a contingent world hath imposed upon them, nor pass beyond its conﬁnes. How, then, can
he whose very creation is restricted by such limitations, attain unto Him Who is the Lord of the
Kingdom of all created things, or ascend into the heaven of Him Who ruleth the realms of
loftiness and grandeur?
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, my Best-Beloved! Inasmuch as Thou hast ordained
that the utmost limit to which they who lift their hearts to Thee can rise is the confession of their
powerlessness to enter the realms of Thy holy and transcendent unity, and that the highest
station which they who aspire to know Thee can reach is the acknowledgement of their
impotence to attain the retreats of Thy sublime knowledge, I, therefore, beseech Thee, by this
very powerlessness which is beloved of Thee, and which Thou hast decreed as the goal of them
that have reached and attained Thy court, and by the splendours of Thy countenance that have
encompassed all things, and by the energies of Thy Will whereby the entire creation hath been
generated, not to deprive them that have set their hopes in Thee of the wonders of Thy mercy, nor
to withhold from such as have sought Thee the treasures of Thy grace. Ignite, then, within their
hearts the torch of Thy love, that its ﬂame may consume all else except their wondrous
remembrance of Thee, and that no trace may be left in those hearts except the gem-like evidences
of Thy most holy sovereignty, so that from the land wherein they dwell no voice may be heard
except the voice that extolleth Thy mercifulness and might, that on the earth on which they walk
no light may shine except the light of Thy beauty, and that within every soul naught may be
discovered except the revelation of Thy countenance and the tokens of Thy glory, that haply Thy
servants may show forth only that which shall please Thee and shall conform wholly unto Thy
most potent will.
Glory be to Thee, O my God! The power of Thy might beareth me witness! I can have no
doubt that should the holy breaths of Thy loving-kindness and the breeze of Thy bountiful favour
cease, for less than the twinkling of an eye, to breathe over all created things, the entire creation
would perish, and all that are in heaven and on earth would be reduced to utter nothingness.
Magniﬁed, therefore, be the marvellous evidences of Thy transcendent power! Magniﬁed be the
potency of Thine exalted might! Magniﬁed be the majesty of Thine all-encompassing greatness,
and the energizing inﬂuence of Thy will! Such is Thy greatness that wert Thou to concentrate the
eyes of all men in the eye of one of Thy servants, and to compress all their hearts within his
heart, and wert Thou to enable him to behold within himself all the things Thou hast created
through Thy power and fashioned through Thy might, and were he to ponder, throughout eternity,
over the realms of Thy creation and the range of Thy handiwork, he would unfailingly discover
that there is no created thing but is overshadowed by Thine all-conquering power, and is vitalized
through Thine all-embracing sovereignty.
Behold me, then, O my God, fallen prostrate upon the dust before Thee, confessing my
powerlessness and Thine omnipotence, my poverty and Thy wealth, mine evanescence and Thine
eternity, mine utter abasement and Thine inﬁnite glory. I recognize that there is none other God
but Thee, that Thou hast no peer nor partner, none to equal or rival Thee. In Thine
unapproachable loftiness Thou hast, from eternity, been exalted above the praise of any one but
Thee, and shalt continue for ever, in Thy transcendent singleness and glory, to be sanctiﬁed from
the gloriﬁcation of any one except Thine own Self.
I swear by Thy might, O my Beloved! To make mention of any created thing beseemeth not
Thy most exalted Self, and to bestow any praise upon any one of Thy creatures would be wholly
unworthy of Thy great glory. Nay, such a mention would be but blasphemy uttered within the
court of Thy holiness, and such praise would amount to no less than a transgression in the face of
the evidences of Thy Divine sovereignty. For the mere mention of any one of Thy creatures would
in itself imply an assertion of their existence before the court of Thy singleness and unity. Such
an assertion would be naught but open blasphemy, an act of impiety, the essence of profanity and
a wanton crime.
Wherefore, I bear witness with my soul, my spirit, my entire being, that should They Who are
the Daysprings of Thy most holy unity and the Manifestations of Thy transcendent oneness be
able to soar so long as Thine own sovereignty endureth and Thine all-compelling authority can5
6
7
8
9

last, they will fail in the end to attain unto even the precincts of the court wherein Thou didst
reveal the effulgence of but one of Thy most mighty Names. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be, therefore, Thy
wondrous majesty. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be Thine unattainable loftiness. Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be the
pre-eminence of Thy kingship and the sublimity of Thine authority and power.
The highest faculties which the learned have possessed, and whatsoever truths they, in their
search after the gems of Thy knowledge, have discovered; the brightest realities with which the
wise have been endowed, and whatever secrets they, in their attempts to fathom the mysteries of
Thy wisdom, have unravelled, have all been created through the generative power of the Spirit
that was breathed into the Pen which Thy hands have fashioned. How, then, can the thing which
Thy Pen hath created be capable of comprehending those treasures of Thy Faith with which, as
decreed by Thee, that Pen hath been invested? How can it ever know of the Fingers that grasp
Thy Pen, and of Thy merciful favours with which it hath been endowed? How can it, already
unable to reach this station, be made aware of the existence of Thy Hand that controlleth the
Fingers of Thy might? How can it attain unto the comprehension of the nature of Thy Will that
animateth the movement of Thy Hand?
Gloriﬁed, gloriﬁed be Thou, O my God! How can I ever hope to ascend into the heaven of Thy
most holy will, or gain admittance into the tabernacle of Thy Divine knowledge, knowing as I do
that the minds of the wise and learned are impotent to fathom the secrets of Thy handiwork—a
handiwork which is itself but a creation of Thy will?
Praise be to Thee, O Lord, my God, my Master, my Possessor, my King. Now that I have
confessed unto Thee my powerlessness and the powerlessness of all created things, and have
acknowledged my poverty and the poverty of the entire creation, I call unto Thee with my tongue
and the tongues of all that are in heaven and on earth, and beseech Thee with my heart and the
hearts of all that have entered beneath the shadow of Thy names and Thine attributes, not to shut
us from the doors of Thy loving-kindness and grace, nor to suffer the breeze of Thy bountiful care
and favour to cease from being wafted over our souls, nor to permit that our hearts be occupied
with any one except Thee, or our minds to be busied with any remembrance save remembrance of
Thy Self.
By the glory of Thy might, O my God! Wert Thou to set me king over Thy realms, and to
establish me upon the throne of Thy sovereignty, and to deliver, through Thy power, the reins of
the entire creation into my hands, and wert Thou to cause me, though it be for less than a
moment, to be occupied with these things and be oblivious of the wondrous memories associated
with Thy most mighty, most perfect, and most exalted Name, my soul would still remain
unsatisﬁed, and the pangs of my heart unstilled. Nay, I would, in that very state, recognize myself
as the poorest of the poor, and the most wretched of wretches.
Magniﬁed be Thy name, O my God! Now that Thou hast caused me to apprehend this truth, I
beseech Thee by Thy Name which no scroll can bear, which no heart can imagine and no tongue
can utter—a Name which will remain concealed so long as Thine own Essence is hidden, and will
be gloriﬁed so long as Thine own Being is extolled—to unfurl, ere the present year draw to a close,
the ensigns of Thine undisputed ascendancy and triumph, that the whole creation may be
enriched by Thy wealth, and may be exalted through the ennobling inﬂuence of Thy transcendent
sovereignty, and that all may arise and promote Thy Cause.
Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the All-Highest, the All-Glorious, the All-Subduing, the All-
Possessing.
5
He is the Sovereign King, the Holy of Holies.
Praise be unto Thee, O Lord my God! This is that Day among Thy Days and that Hour among Thy
blessed Hours which Thou hast reserved for Thine own Self, related to Thine own Being, and
exalted in station, that Thy Name may endure and Thy sovereignty be made manifest. Thou hast
made this Day to be the source of all days, inasmuch as Thou hast showered upon it the
revelations of the Throne of Thy majesty and the signs of Thy transcendent favour. Thou hast10
11
12
13
14
15
1

created it anew, at this time, in the most excellent form in this ancient Temple, so that on this
Day, and by its grace, all the dwellers of earth and heaven might be raised again to life and,
unbeknownst to and unapprehended by all, be called upon to render account regarding Thy Self.
Perchance Thy sacred and celestial blessings and Thy divine and glorious bestowals might be
completed therein, that they may testify to the creation of all things on the Day of Thy presence
and to the appearance of Thy days and the dawning of the Sun of Thy beauty.
Even as mention was made of this signal honour and supreme bounty, of the ecstasy of
yearning for Thee, the ascendancy of Thine all-conquering love, and the transports of Thy holy
rapture, I heard the call of one of Thy servants who hath believed in Thee and in Thy signs, who
hath renounced all things, turned towards the Countenance of Thy beauty, and hastened through
every region unto the habitation of Thy repose. He hath at last reached Thy door and stood before
the light of Thine everlasting holiness that hath shone forth above the horizon of Thy oneness and
the dayspring of Thine eternity, longing to ascend unto the heights of Thy presence and reunion
and to abide upon the seat of Thy nearness within Thy sacred Precinct. Cause, then, O my God,
the dove of yearning to soar within his heart, and the seas of Thy love to surge within his inmost
being, and the matchless tokens of Thy remembrance to ﬂow from his tongue, and the gems of
Thy praise to issue from his spirit. Draw him ever nearer, O my Lord, that he may be enabled to
safeguard within the inmost recesses of his heart this most brilliant light and hidden treasure, and
that he may thus dwell with Thy Servant in Thy most exalted horizon and all-glorious realm.
Thou, verily, abidest even now in Thine everlasting habitation, and beholdest this crimson
spirit, and hearest this most sweet melody in the midmost heart of the Divine Essence, the centre
of the Realm of mysteries. Powerful art Thou to do what Thou willest. Thou, verily, art the
Exalted, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Self-Subsisting.2
3

Riḍván
6
In the name of Him Who hath cast His splendour over the entire creation!
The Divine Springtime is come, O Most Exalted Pen, for the Festival of the All-Merciful is fast
approaching. Bestir thyself, and magnify, before the entire creation, the name of God, and
celebrate His praise, in such wise that all created things may be regenerated and made new.
Speak, and hold not thy peace. The day-star of blissfulness shineth above the horizon of Our
name, the Blissful, inasmuch as the kingdom of the names of God hath been adorned with the
ornament of the name of thy Lord, the Creator of the heavens. Arise before the nations of the
earth, and arm thyself with the power of this Most Great Name, and be not of those who tarry.
Methinks that thou hast halted and movest not upon My Tablet. Could the brightness of the
Divine Countenance have bewildered thee, or the idle talk of the froward ﬁlled thee with grief and
paralysed thy movement? Take heed lest anything deter thee from extolling the greatness of this
Day—the Day whereon the Finger of majesty and power hath opened the seal of the Wine of
Reunion, and called all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth. Preferrest thou to
tarry when the breeze announcing the Day of God hath already breathed over thee, or art thou of
them that are shut out as by a veil from Him?
No veil whatever have I allowed, O Lord of all names and Creator of the heavens, to shut me
from the recognition of the glories of Thy Day—the Day which is the lamp of guidance unto the
whole world, and the sign of the Ancient of Days unto all them that dwell therein. My silence is
by reason of the veils that have blinded Thy creatures’ eyes to Thee, and my muteness is because
of the impediments that have hindered Thy people from recognizing Thy truth. Thou knowest
what is in me, but I know not what is in Thee. Thou art the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. By
Thy name that excelleth all other names! If Thy overruling and all-compelling behest should ever
reach me, it would empower me to revive the souls of all men, through Thy most exalted Word,
which I have heard uttered by Thy Tongue of power in Thy Kingdom of glory. It would enable me
to announce the revelation of Thy effulgent countenance wherethrough that which lay hidden
from the eyes of men hath been manifested in Thy name, the Perspicuous, the sovereign
Protector, the Self-Subsisting.
Canst thou discover any one but Me, O Pen, in this Day? What hath become of the creation
and the manifestations thereof? What of the names and their kingdom? Whither are gone all
created things, whether seen or unseen? What of the hidden secrets of the universe and its
revelations? Lo, the entire creation hath passed away! Nothing remaineth except My Face, the
Ever-Abiding, the Resplendent, the All-Glorious.
This is the Day whereon naught can be seen except the splendours of the Light that shineth
from the face of Thy Lord, the Gracious, the Most Bountiful. Verily, We have caused every soul to
expire by virtue of Our irresistible and all-subduing sovereignty. We have, then, called into being a
new creation, as a token of Our grace unto men. I am, verily, the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of
Days.
This is the Day whereon the unseen world crieth out: “Great is thy blessedness, O earth, for
thou hast been made the footstool of thy God, and been chosen as the seat of His mighty throne.”
The realm of glory exclaimeth: “Would that my life could be sacriﬁced for thee, for He Who is the
Beloved of the All-Merciful hath established His sovereignty upon thee, through the power of His
Name that hath been promised unto all things, whether of the past or of the future.” This is the
Day whereon every sweet smelling thing hath derived its fragrance from the smell of My garment
—a garment that hath shed its perfume upon the whole of creation. This is the Day whereon the
rushing waters of everlasting life have gushed out of the Will of the All-Merciful. Haste ye, with
your hearts and souls, and quaff your ﬁll, O Concourse of the realms above!
Say: He it is Who is the Manifestation of Him Who is the Unknowable, the Invisible of the
Invisibles, could ye but perceive it. He it is Who hath laid bare before you the hidden and1
2
3
4
5
6
7

treasured Gem, were ye to seek it. He it is Who is the one Beloved of all things, whether of the
past or of the future. Would that ye might set your hearts and hopes upon Him!
We have heard the voice of thy pleading, O Pen, and excuse thy silence. What is it that hath
so sorely bewildered thee?
The inebriation of Thy presence, O Well-Beloved of all worlds, hath seized and possessed me.
Arise, and proclaim unto the entire creation the tidings that He Who is the All-Merciful hath
directed His steps towards the Riḍván and entered it. Guide, then, the people unto the garden of
delight which God hath made the Throne of His Paradise. We have chosen thee to be Our most
mighty Trumpet, whose blast is to signalize the resurrection of all mankind.
Say: This is the Paradise on whose foliage the wine of utterance hath imprinted the
testimony: “He that was hidden from the eyes of men is revealed, girded with sovereignty and
power!” This is the Paradise the rustling of whose leaves proclaimeth: “O ye that inhabit the
heavens and the earth! There hath appeared what hath never previously appeared. He Who, from
everlasting, had concealed His Face from the sight of creation is now come.” From the whispering
breeze that wafteth amidst its branches there cometh the cry: “He Who is the sovereign Lord of all
is made manifest. The Kingdom is God’s,” while from its streaming waters can be heard the
murmur: “All eyes are gladdened, for He Whom none hath beheld, Whose secret no one hath
discovered, hath lifted the veil of glory, and uncovered the countenance of Beauty.”
Within this Paradise, and from the heights of its loftiest chambers, the Maids of Heaven have
cried out and shouted: “Rejoice, ye dwellers of the realms above, for the ﬁngers of Him Who is the
Ancient of Days are ringing, in the name of the All-Glorious, the Most Great Bell, in the midmost
heart of the heavens. The hands of bounty have borne round the cup of everlasting life. Approach,
and quaff your ﬁll. Drink with healthy relish, O ye that are the very incarnations of longing, ye
who are the embodiments of vehement desire!”
This is the Day whereon He Who is the Revealer of the names of God hath stepped out of the
Tabernacle of glory, and proclaimed unto all who are in the heavens and all who are on the earth:
“Put away the cups of Paradise and all the life-giving waters they contain, for lo, the people of
Bahá have entered the blissful abode of the Divine Presence, and quaffed the wine of reunion,
from the chalice of the beauty of their Lord, the All-Possessing, the Most High.”
Forget the world of creation, O Pen, and turn thou towards the face of thy Lord, the Lord of all
names. Adorn, then, the world with the ornament of the favours of thy Lord, the King of
everlasting days. For We perceive the fragrance of the Day whereon He Who is the Desire of all
nations hath shed upon the kingdoms of the unseen and of the seen the splendour of the light of
His most excellent names, and enveloped them with the radiance of the luminaries of His most
gracious favours—favours which none can reckon except Him, Who is the omnipotent Protector of
the entire creation.
Look not upon the creatures of God except with the eye of kindliness and of mercy, for Our
loving providence hath pervaded all created things, and Our grace encompassed the earth and the
heavens. This is the Day whereon the true servants of God partake of the life-giving waters of
reunion, the Day whereon those that are nigh unto Him are able to drink of the soft-ﬂowing river
of immortality, and they who believe in His unity, the wine of His Presence, through their
recognition of Him Who is the Highest and Last End of all, in Whom the Tongue of Majesty and
Glory voiceth the call: “The Kingdom is Mine. I, Myself, am, of Mine own right, its Ruler.”
Attract the hearts of men, through the call of Him, the one alone Beloved. Say: This is the
Voice of God, if ye do but hearken. This is the Dayspring of the Revelation of God, did ye but
know it. This is the Dawning-Place of the Cause of God, were ye to recognize it. This is the Source
of the commandment of God, did ye but judge it fairly. This is the manifest and hidden Secret;
would that ye might perceive it. O peoples of the world! Cast away, in My name that transcendeth
all other names, the things ye possess, and immerse yourselves in this Ocean in whose depths lay
hidden the pearls of wisdom and of utterance, an ocean that surgeth in My name, the All-Merciful.
Thus instructeth you He with Whom is the Mother Book.
The Best-Beloved is come. In His right hand is the sealed Wine of His name. Happy is the
man that turneth unto Him, and drinketh his ﬁll, and exclaimeth: “Praise be to Thee, O Revealer8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17

of the signs of God!” By the righteousness of the Almighty! Every hidden thing hath been
manifested through the power of truth. All the favours of God have been sent down, as a token of
His grace. The waters of everlasting life have, in their fullness, been proffered unto men. Every
single cup hath been borne round by the hand of the Well-Beloved. Draw near, and tarry not,
though it be for one short moment.
Blessed are they that have soared on the wings of detachment and attained the station which,
as ordained by God, overshadoweth the entire creation, whom neither the vain imaginations of the
learned, nor the multitude of the hosts of the earth have succeeded in deﬂecting from His Cause.
Who is there among you, O people, who will renounce the world, and draw nigh unto God, the
Lord of all names? Where is he to be found who, through the power of My name that transcendeth
all created things, will cast away the things that men possess, and cling, with all his might, to the
things which God, the Knower of the unseen and of the seen, hath bidden him observe? Thus hath
His bounty been sent down unto men, His testimony fulﬁlled, and His proof shone forth above the
Horizon of mercy. Rich is the prize that shall be won by him who hath believed and exclaimed:
“Lauded art Thou, O Beloved of all worlds! Magniﬁed be Thy name, O Thou the Desire of every
understanding heart!”
Rejoice with exceeding gladness, O people of Bahá, as ye call to remembrance the Day of
supreme felicity, the Day whereon the Tongue of the Ancient of Days hath spoken, as He
departed from His House, proceeding to the Spot from which He shed upon the whole of creation
the splendours of His name, the All-Merciful. God is Our witness. Were We to reveal the hidden
secrets of that Day, all they that dwell on earth and in the heavens would swoon away and die,
except such as will be preserved by God, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Such is the inebriating effect of the words of God upon Him Who is the Revealer of His
undoubted proofs, that His Pen can move no longer. With these words He concludeth His Tablet:
No God is there but Me, the Most Exalted, the Most Powerful, the Most Excellent, the All-Knowing.
7
He it is Who is established upon this luminous Throne.
Proclaim unto the celestial Concourse, O Pen of effulgent glory, that lo, the veil of concealment
hath been rent asunder and the Beauty of the Lord hath been revealed from this Scene of
transcendent glory with such radiance as to cause the luminaries of His command to shine above
the dayspring of His almighty Name. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath
dawned above a horizon of surpassing grace!
This is a festival wherein all things have been adorned with the vesture of the names of God,
and wherein His bounty hath compassed all things from ﬁrst to last. All hail then to this, the
Festival of the Lord, that hath shone above a dayspring of resplendent holiness!
Summon, then, the maids of eternity to hasten forth from their crimson chambers in their
celestial grace, and to appear betwixt earth and heaven with the most glorious adorning. Grant
them leave, then, to pass round to the inhabitants of the world, high and low alike, that cup of life
which hath been drawn from the heavenly stream of mercy. All hail then to this, the Festival of
the Lord, that hath appeared above the horizon of holiness with wondrous rapture!
Bid then the heavenly youths, who have been fashioned from the splendours of the All-
Praised, to issue forth from their heavenly abode, decked in the attire of the All-Merciful, and to
proffer with ruby ﬁngers the chalice of immortality to the inmates of the highest Paradise among
the companions of Bahá, that they may be drawn nigh unto the Splendour of the Lord of Grandeur
—this shining and resplendent Beauty. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath
appeared above a dayspring of exalted glory!
By God! This is the festival wherein the beauty of the Unknowable Essence hath appeared
unveiled and arrayed with such sovereignty as to lay low the necks of them that have repudiated
His truth. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath appeared with supreme
dominion!18
19
20
1
2
3
4
5

This is a festival wherein all things have been absolved by virtue of the appearance of Him
Who is the Ancient King from behind the veil of names. Wherefore, rejoice in your hearts, O
peoples of the world, for the breezes of forgiveness have been wafted over the entire creation and
the spirit of life hath been breathed into the world. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord,
that hath appeared above a dayspring of resplendent holiness!
Beware lest ye transgress the bounds of courtesy and commit that which your minds and your
hearts abhor. This is that whereunto ye were bidden by the Pen of God, the Almighty, the Most
Powerful. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath appeared above a horizon of
wondrous grace!
This is a festival wherein the Beauty of the Lord of Grandeur hath been exalted above all
things, and wherein He, unveiled and unconcealed, hath proclaimed His will and purpose unto all
that are in heaven and on earth. And this is but a token of His grace that hath pervaded the entire
creation. Therein was the Temple of Bahá seated upon the throne of eternity, and the splendours
of His countenance dawned above the horizon of creation with the light of wondrous glory. All hail
then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath appeared above a horizon of wondrous grace!
O ye that abide beneath the tabernacle of grandeur! O ye that dwell within the pavilion of
inviolable sanctity! O ye that are sheltered under the canopy of loftiness and glory! Lift up your
voices and sing in the most melodious of tones in your most exalted chambers, for in this
Dispensation the veiled Beauty hath been revealed, and the Day-Star of the Unseen hath risen
above the horizon of ancient glory. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath
appeared with a splendid adorning!
O company of the Concourse on high, and O denizens of the immortal city! Hasten ye to pay
homage, for the Shrine of grandeur hath appeared within this Tabernacle round which all former
shrines revolve; and circle about and draw nigh unto the Lord of all men in these days, the like of
which the eyes of the former generations have never beheld. All hail then to this, the Festival of
the Lord, that hath dawned above the horizon of God, the Most Gracious, the All-Bountiful!
Drink deep, O ye dwellers of earth and heaven, from the chalice of eternal life that the hand
of Bahá proferreth in this most lofty and exalted Paradise. By God! Whoso partaketh but a drop
thereof shall neither suffer the vicissitudes of time nor fall prey to the wiles of the Evil One, but
the Lord shall send him forth in every Dispensation adorned with a hallowed and wondrous
beauty. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath been made manifest from the seat
of the Lord of all wisdom!
Sanctify your souls from the world, O people, and hasten unto the Divine Lote-Tree in this
furthermost sanctuary, that ye may hearken unto the voice of your Lord, the All-Merciful, calling
from this Paradise which hath been created at the behest of God, the All-Praised, and before
whose portals the inmates of the pavilion of sanctity bow down in adoration. All hail then to this,
the Festival of the Lord, that hath shone forth above the horizon of majesty and grandeur!
Take heed, O people, lest ye deprive yourselves of the breezes of these days wherein the
fragrance of the divine Robe is being wafted at every moment from the presence of this glorious
and radiant Youth. All hail then to this, the Festival of the Lord, that hath shone from the
dayspring of His name, the Most High!
8
He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious.
Praise be to Thee, O my God, that the dawn of Thy Riḍván Festival hath broken, and that therein
one who had sought Thy presence hath attained his goal, O Thou our Lord, the Most Merciful!
How numerous are Thy loved ones, O my God, who traversed the sands of Syria in their longing to
gaze on Thy beauty but who were prevented from attaining the court of Thy transcendent
oneness by reason of the misdeeds of Thy foes, who have disbelieved in Thee and gainsaid Thy
sovereignty.
O Lord! Look upon the oppressors of Thy people with the eye of Thine avenging wrath. By
Thy might! Their iniquity hath reached such heights as none can reckon save Thyself, Who6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
1
2

knowest all things. Thy loved ones acquiesced to captivity and conﬁnement in this prison, and yet
their enemies were still not satisﬁed, so intense was their hatred for the Manifestation of Thy
Cause. Blessed be the man of insight who seeth in all that hath befallen him in Thy path naught
save that which shall exalt his station and magnify Thy Cause, O Thou the Lord of the worlds!
By Thy glory! Were all the peoples of the earth to join together to harm a single one of the
people of Bahá, they would ﬁnd themselves powerless, for all that they see as harming Thy
chosen ones is as light unto them and as ﬁre unto Thine enemies. Were it not for the conﬁnement,
in the Most Great Prison, of Him Who is the Exponent of Thy transcendent sovereignty, how
would Thy Cause have been promulgated, Thy sovereignty manifested, Thy might proclaimed,
and the truth of Thy signs established? Would that I Myself had borne all the tribulations of the
world, out of love for Thee and for Thy creatures!
O Lord! Open Thou the eyes of Thy servants, that they may behold Thee at all times seated
upon the throne of Thy grandeur and supreme over all who are in heaven and on earth. Potent art
Thou to do what Thou willest. No God is there but Thee, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
9
On the ﬁrst day that the Ancient Beauty ascended His Most Great Throne in the garden named
Riḍván, the Tongue of Glory gave utterance to three blessed words. First, that in this Revelation
the law of the sword hath been annulled.3 Second, that ere the expiration of one thousand years
whosoever advanceth a prophetic claim is false. By “year” a full year is intended, and no exegesis
or interpretation is permitted in this matter. And third, that at that very hour God, exalted be His
Glory, shed the full splendour of all His names upon all creation.
The following verse was revealed subsequently, but He indicated that it should occupy the
same station as the other three: that when the name of anyone, whether living or dead, is
mentioned in His presence, that soul hath verily attained to the mention of the pre-existent King.
Blessed are they that attain thereto!
10
The day-star of words, dawning above the horizon of the utterance of Him Who is the Lord of all
names and attributes, hath, at this most blessed of hours, shone forth in all truth with the
splendours of the light of God. The spirit of understanding, ﬂowing from the Pen of the All-
Glorious, hath, by virtue of His grace, been conferred upon all created things. The mystery of all
mysteries, emerging from behind the veils of concealment, hath, in very truth, been revealed to
the righteous, as bidden by God, the Almighty, the Unconstrained.
God, the Most Powerful, the Most Exalted, the Most Great, addresseth the holy Beings created
through the Primal Word that proceeded from His mouth, and beyond them the Concourse on
high, and beyond them those whom He hath sanctiﬁed above the comprehension of all who are on
earth and in heaven and whom He hath raised up through His hidden and inscrutable Will, saying:
“Rejoice in your very souls, for the most auspicious time hath come; and the Hour hath struck
round which revolve all the other hours foretold in the Tablets of God, the Almighty, the All-
Glorious, the Most Merciful; and the hidden Morn hath broken forth, in this treasured Name, from
the dayspring of divinity, shedding its radiance upon all that hath been and all that shall be.”
Blessed be the Lord of all bounty, the source of this supernal grace!
The promised Day of God is come! He Who is the Manifestation of the Adored One hath been
established upon the throne of His name, the All-Loving, and the sun of His bounty hath cast its
rays upon the seeing and seen alike. Wherefore renounce ye, O denizens of the realms of
limitation, that which ye possess, adorn your temples with His glorious vesture, and behold with
untainted vision Him Who is the luminous Beauty of God seated upon the throne of glory in His
transcendent, His almighty and all-subduing sovereignty. All praise be to the Best-Beloved, Who
hath revealed His hidden beauty with such manifest authority!
All days have attained their consummation in this most august of days, and all hours in this
noblest of hours, and the Unseen hath willed to confer every grace upon the inmates of earth and3
4
1
2
1
2
3
4

heaven, to establish, before all who are in the kingdoms of revelation and creation, the
Manifestation of God and His loftiness, and the sovereignty of God and His grandeur, that His
favour might be made complete unto His servants and His bounty fulﬁlled unto His creation. And
yet, when once He appeared, the eyes of all who had awaited Him were dazzled, save for those
whom His might had protected and from whose sight He had lifted all worldly veils. Blessed, then,
be He Who hath been made manifest through the power of truth in this wondrous, this shining
vesture!
And when the appointed hour of His Revelation struck on this promised Day, the veils of
destiny were rent asunder and the divine decree was fulﬁlled with the departure of the Luminary
of the heaven of eternity from the city of Baghdád. This came to pass by reason of what the hands
of the malicious had wrought against this Light—a Light that hath outshone every other in its
sacred and wondrous splendour. Blessed, then, be He Who hath sent down these twin Revelations
through His most great, His most mighty sovereignty!
At the advent of this Manifestation the realities of all created things were ﬁlled with joy, and
all seized the cup of ecstasy with the hands of longing and rapture and drank thereof the choicest
wine for love of this Beauty—a Beauty that hath appeared through the power of truth, arrayed
with the ornament of God, the Sovereign, the Just, the All-Wise. Blessed, then, be He Who,
through this Revelation, hath attracted the hearts of the well-favoured of the Lord!
Say: This is the Day for which the Pen of the Most High hath ordained no peer, and whose
like the denizens of the Concourse on high and the realities of the Prophets and Messengers of
God have never attained. Blessed, then, be He Who hath made manifest this hallowed and sacred,
this mighty and wondrous Day!
This is the Day whereon the pillars of the Throne trembled in their yearning for God to
establish Himself thereon, the Day whereon the foundations of the most lofty Seat were stirred
into motion. Blessed, then, be God, the Source of this rapture that hath seized the entire creation!
This is the Day whereon the Sun of Beauty dawned above the horizon of the countenance of
God, the Most Exalted, the Most Great, and the clouds of bounty rained down, and the trees of
Paradise yielded such fruits as God hath apportioned to them that turn unto Him with radiant
hearts in this Dispensation. Blessed, then, be God, Who hath ordained this surpassing grace!
This is the Day whereon the spirits departed from their bodies in their eagerness to behold
the unveiled countenance of the Ancient Beauty. Blessed, then, be the One Who hath manifested
this mighty Day!
This is the Day whereon the Most Great Spirit was embodied in the most comely of forms,
and, proceeding from the Realm on high, approached the Scene of transcendent glory with such
radiance as to delight the Maid of Heaven, until she paused, suspended in the air before Our
presence, with such an adorning as to seize with longing the hearts of the Messengers of God.
Blessed, then, be God, Who hath created this noble angel!
Thereupon the inmates of Paradise, and beyond them the inhabitants of the retreats of
holiness and the realms of communion, and beyond them they that dwell within the habitations of
heaven and they that abide beneath the tabernacle of concealment, stepped forth one and all from
their lofty mansions, and, conversing in hushed tones, apprised one another of that which had
come to pass upon the earth. It was as though the Ancient King had revealed Himself unto
Himself, and then, with undisputed sovereignty, unto His servants and His creatures in the realm
of creation. Blessed, then, be God, Who bringeth forth whatsoever He pleaseth through the
potency of His all-compelling command!
Then the Most Great Spirit raised a call that resounded through the entire creation, saying:
“Solaced be your eyes, O ye inhabitants of earth and heaven, O ye manifestations of the divine
names and attributes, and O ye who are immersed beneath the oceans of grandeur that lie beyond
the worlds of intimation and allusion! This is the Day whereon God Himself, the Most Exalted, the
Most High, through His own sacred and glorious Self, beareth round unto every soul, high and low
alike, the cup of nearness and reunion.” Blessed, then, be God, Who hath revealed Himself in all
His manifold grace on this greatest of all days!5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13

This is the Day whereon the most grievous veil was torn asunder and the Scene of
transcendent purity was made manifest; the Day whereon the face of God smiled with the joy of
reunion, and the gates of His presence were ﬂung open to the embodiments of His beauty and
majesty and to them that had pierced the veils of glory through the power born of God, the
Almighty, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise; the Day whereon all things visible and invisible cried
out: “Hallowed be the Lord, the most excellent of all creators!”
Whereupon the Most Great Spirit was summoned to silence, and the rapture of God seized the
inhabitants of the cities of eternity, the inmates of the crimson chambers, and the dwellers of the
kingdom of names. One and all they descended from their habitations until they stood betwixt
earth and heaven, with utmost humility and submissiveness, before His Countenance. Blessed,
then, be God, Who hath made manifest this resistless, this all-glorious and transcendent Cause!
Then were their voices lifted up in praise and exultation on this glorious Day, a Day whose
radiance deriveth not from the sun and its rays but from the effulgent light of the Countenance of
God, the King, the Exalted, the All-Bountiful. Blessed, then, be He Who hath caused it to appear
through the power of truth and Who hath resurrected therein the souls of all humankind!
And then another herald called out from the Scene of transcendent glory: “By God! This is the
Day whereon the veils of contention were torn asunder, and the breezes of unity were wafted, and
the Lord of creation appeared, invested with manifest sovereignty and riding upon the clouds of
grandeur on this, His promised Day.” Blessed, then, be God, Who hath descended in truth from the
heaven of sublime holiness!
This is the Day whereon ﬁre and water were joined together as one, and the veils were
removed from the face of all mysteries, inasmuch as the Beauty of the Unconstrained came forth
arrayed in the raiment of His own Self, the Help in Peril, the Almighty, the Incomparable. All
glory be to this Day whose advent hath cheered the eyes of the well-favoured of God!
When that joy born of God had taken hold of all else besides Him, the Most Great Spirit called
out once more, proclaiming: “O ye dwellers of the kingdoms of earth and heaven! O ye denizens of
the realms of revelation and creation! Blessed are your ears, for they have hearkened unto the
verses of nearness and reunion. Hear now the tidings of remoteness and separation, for the
Luminary of the world hath purposed to depart from the land of ‘Iráq, in accordance with the ﬁrm
covenant that hath been set forth in the Scriptures of God, the All-Powerful, the All-Knowing, the
All-Wise.”
At this announcement the dwellers of earth and heaven were ﬁlled with dismay. Such was
their weeping and wailing that they fell prostrate upon the dust, consumed with sorrow. How
strange that grievous and sore-trying separation! All things visible and invisible were bewildered
by this call. Such was their plight that the letter “B” became oblivious of the letter “E”, and the
lovers forsook the face of their Beloved, the Almighty, the All-Praised. How woeful was that
manifest and irrevocable decree!
When matters came to such a pass, the Ancient Beauty bestirred Himself, and all things were
inwardly and outwardly set in motion. Then He arose, and through His arising the Most Great
Resurrection was ushered in betwixt earth and heaven. Whereupon the Spirit called out once
again, before His presence: “O Isráfíl!4 By the righteousness of God, thou wert created for this day.
Wherefore, sound thy trumpet to proclaim the advent of this Manifestation, that every mouldering
bone may be quickened thereby!” As bidden, the angel sounded his trumpet, causing all who dwell
in heaven and on earth to swoon away. Then he sounded his trumpet anew; they arose and, ﬁxing
their gaze upon this glorious Vision, cried out: “Hallowed be the Lord, the most excellent of all
creators!”
The Ancient Beauty stepped forth, while the Kingdom of Revelation preceded Him and the
Heaven of divine Inspiration followed in His wake. On His right strode the Realm of Command,
and on His left marched the hosts of the well-favoured ones. All glory be to this manifest and
wondrous Cause!
And when He reached the courtyard of the House, the concourse of the realm of holiness
prostrated themselves at His feet, and the foundations of the House trembled in their separation
from God, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the Most Exalted. The inhabitants of every city cried14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23

out, and the hearts of them that circle round God were sorely shaken. How grievous that
separation which caused the very pillars of the world to crumble!
Upon hearing the lamentations of the inhabitants of the realm of dust, the Beauty of the All-
Beloved lingered a moment, and the Eye of majesty wept sore at their weeping. Indeed, the sighs
of His loved ones caused His heart to swell with such grief that none in the heavens or on the
earth could bear its weight.
He proceeded until He reached the concealing veil, and there at His feet He beheld a child
that had removed itself from its mother’s breast. And this infant clung to the hem of His robe so
earnestly and besought Him in such piteous tones to stay, that the dust of sorrow shrouded the
face of every perceiving soul and the winds of anguish blew upon the entire creation. How heavy
the burden of grief that clouded the countenance of the sincere! Were it not for the protection of
God, the seven heavens would at that moment have been cleft asunder, and the earth would have
swallowed up all that dwell upon it, and every lofty peak would have been reduced to dust.
The Hand of Power then parted the veil of grandeur, whence the Beauty of the All-Glorious
emerged with supreme sovereignty. When He Who is the Self of God, the Almighty, the All-
Bountiful, purposed to pass through the gate, the Most Great Spirit made its ﬁnal proclamation:
“By God! The Well-Beloved of the worlds hath departed from His House by reason of what the
hands of the oppressors have wrought.”
He then wept within Himself with such a weeping that the dwellers of earth and heaven, and
those suspended in the air before Him, and those circling round the Countenance of grandeur,
wept with Him. And He spoke unto them, saying: “Know ye that in such a departure on the very
Day of Our Appearance there are signs and tokens for them that understand. Haply, by reason of
Our departure on this most sublime and wondrous Day, the peoples of earth and heaven may
emerge from behind the veils of self and passion; draw nigh unto God, the Most Exalted, the All-
Glorious; and become detached from whatsoever He hath created or ordained in this world. This is
that which God had purposed for them as a bounty from His presence. He, verily, is the All-
Bountiful, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.” Blessed, then, be God, the source of this most
manifest, this most exalted bestowal!
The King of Eternity went forth, ﬂanked by the hosts of the seen and the unseen, with His
gaze ﬁxed upon the court of the divine decree. Before Him arose the sighs of His lovers, whilst
behind Him could be heard the lamentations of them that yearn after Him. When He reached the
banks of the river, He parted from His loved ones, and it was as though the very souls of those
devoted servants had parted from their bodies. But He exhorted them to patience and fortitude,
and summoned them to the fear of God, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the Unconstrained. And
then, crossing the river, He entered the Garden of Riḍván, wherein He ascended the throne of His
wondrous sovereignty. Blessed, then, be the All-Bountiful, the Source of this all-encompassing
grace!
Once seated on His throne, the Ancient Beauty shed the splendour of His name, the Self-
Subsisting, upon all things, so as to fulﬁl that which had been recorded by the Supreme Pen at the
bidding of God, the Most Exalted, the Most High. Then He cast the light of His name, the All-
Possessing, upon all things seen and unseen; and of His name, the Most Manifest, upon all that is
mentioned and all that is concealed; and of His name, the Most Great, upon the embodiments of
eternity and all other peoples; and of His name, the All-Knowing, upon the exponents of the
names of God. Well is it with the one who hath turned towards that which He hath revealed
through His unfailing grace on this most august Day. How glorious was His assumption of that
seat of majesty, through which the hearts of them that enjoy near access to Him were assured,
and the souls of them that have recognized Him drew nigh, and the faces of them that have
turned towards Him were illumined, and the spirits of them that have ﬁxed their gaze upon Him
were sanctiﬁed, and the eyes of the Concourse on high were cheered, and the tongues of all things,
visible and invisible, were unloosed in praise of God, the Sovereign Lord, the Mighty, the Gracious!
Sweet indeed was that heavenly fragrance through which the musk of hidden meanings was
scattered throughout the worlds!24
25
26
27
28
29

The Ancient Beauty’s ascent upon His throne took place at the very moment the people
arose to offer the afternoon prayer unto God, the Almighty, the Beauteous. Even in this there are
signs for those who are well assured, evidences for them that discern, and allusions for such as
have been endued with insight. The Beauty of the All-Merciful tarried in the Garden of Riḍván for
twelve days, during which the hosts of the Concourse on high, the well-favoured angels of God,
and the souls of His Messengers circled day and night round the Tabernacle of grandeur and the
Pavilion of inviolable sanctity, guarding and protecting the people of God from the hosts of the
Evil One. Blessed, then, be God, Who manifested this incomparable, this glorious station!
During every moment of those days, the inmates of the chambers of Paradise descended from
on high, bearing chalices brimming over with the living waters of revelation and cups overﬂowing
with the choice wine of holiness, which they proffered unto the dwellers of the pavilion of glory
and the inmates of the tabernacle of resplendent majesty. Blessed, then, be God for this most
exalted, this all-encompassing grace!
And when the appointed time of tarrying was fulﬁlled and the decree of departure was
received, the Beauty of the All-Merciful arose and went out from the Riḍván Garden riding upon
the ﬁnest stallion. Blessed, then, be the All-Glorious, Who appeared in the world of creation with a
sovereignty that transcendeth the heavens and the earth!
As He departed, a cry of sorrow ascended from the garden, and its trees, and leaves, and fruits,
and walls, and air, and ground, and pavilion, while the dwellers of the deserts and the wilderness,
and even the very dunes and the dust of the earth, rejoiced at His approach.
Thus did the Beauty of the All-Glorious establish Himself upon the lofty heights of eternity,
inasmuch as His gaze was ﬁxed upon the decree which the Finger of God, the Most Exalted, the
Most Glorious, had inscribed upon the blessed and snow-white Tablet. And thus do We relate unto
you the account of the day of Our Manifestation and the circumstances of Our banishment by
reason of the machinations of such seditious souls as had disbelieved in and joined partners with
God, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the Most Bountiful.
11
He is the Manifest, the Hidden, the All-Glorious, the All-Knowing, the Ever-Forbearing.
O Lord my God! Whensoever I attempt to unloose my tongue to extol the wondrous expressions of
Thy transcendent oneness, or to open my lips to disclose the mystic gems of Thine incomparable
handiwork wherewith Thou hast inspired me, I am compelled to recognize that all things sing Thy
praise and glorify Thy remembrance—a remembrance which hath so pervaded the heavens and
the earth that all things proclaim, in their very being, the wondrous testimonies of Thine exalted
praise and bear witness to the marvellous tokens of Thy transcendent unity. Wherefore am I
ashamed, as are all who mention Thee, to approach the exalted heights of Thy remembrance, and
am powerless, as are all who extol Thee, to ascend unto the lofty summits of Thy praise.
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed, art Thou! So exalted are the wonders of Thy bounty unto
Thy creatures that Thou hast made all things to serve as a sign unto the mindful amongst Thy
servants and as an admonishment unto the heedless amidst Thy people. Thy glory beareth me
witness! They that are endued with true understanding can discern naught in all creation save the
wondrous tokens of Thy matchless handiwork, nor behold aught else in the world of being but the
hidden gems of Thine all-glorious sovereignty.
I swear by Thy glory, O my Best-Beloved! Whensoever I raise mine eyes to the heavens and
witness their loftiness, I recognize naught therein but the wondrous heights of Thy supreme
power and sovereign authority. And whensoever I turn my gaze towards Thine earth and observe
the potentialities wherewith it hath been endowed, I perceive naught but the peerless signs of
Thine immutable nature and abiding constancy. And whensoever, O my God, I behold the sea and
its waves, methinks I hear the billowing ocean of Thy wealth and power. In the sun I discern
naught but the marvellous splendour of the light of Thy hallowed countenance and presence, and
in the wind I sense naught save the stirring breezes of Thy nearness and reunion. In the trees I
behold only the revelation of the fruits of Thy wisdom and knowledge, and in their leaves I read30
31
32
33
34
1
2
3

but the pages of the books enshrining the mysteries of all that hath been through Thy command
or will be through Thy power.
Gloriﬁed, then, be Thou, O my God! I am powerless, as are all those who enjoy near access
unto Thee, to reckon the least sign of Thy creation, inasmuch as Thou hast made all things to
mirror forth the manifestations of Thy handiwork and the revelations of Thy sovereign rule. Such
being the bounds of powerlessness and poverty that conﬁne me and all created things, how then
can any soul ever hope to approach the portals of the sanctuary of Thy knowledge or conceive the
least expectation of attaining the city of Thy transcendent glory? Gloriﬁed, immeasurably
gloriﬁed, art Thou! From everlasting Thou hast been sanctiﬁed above the comprehension of Thy
creatures, for this comprehension is naught but the product of such idle fancies as pertain to their
own selves, while Thou hast remained, in the reality of Thine own Self, exalted above them and
all that they possess, and beyond the grasp of all that are in heaven and on earth. There is none
other God but Thee, the Almighty, the Incomparable.
Having acknowledged, O my God, with my soul, my tongue, mine essence, and with mine
inner and outer being, all my trespasses, whose like mortal eyes have never beheld nor human
minds conceived, I implore Thee to pardon me and Thy loved ones for whatsoever we have failed
to observe of Thy laws and ordinances. Attire us then with the robe of forgiveness, O my God, in
this Day whereon Thou hast assumed the throne of Thy grace and bounty invested with the full
glory of Thy names and attributes; the Day whereon the sun of Thy beauty hath dawned above
the horizon of Thy grandeur, and the signs of Thy glorious sovereignty have been vouchsafed from
the treasury of Thy grace; the Day whereon the sweet savours of reunion have wafted over all
who are in Thy heaven and on Thine earth, and the hidden Word hath shone forth from the
repository of Thy protection and power.
I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast ordained this Day to stand unequalled amongst all
the days of Thy world and unrivalled amidst all that Thou hast fashioned through Thy creative
power. This is that primal Day which Thou hast singled out from among all other days, and
exalted over all other times, and appointed as the King of Days unto all peoples, inasmuch as
Thou didst manifest on this Day the tokens of Thy transcendent power and the evidences of Thy
holy unity. Thou hast caused its radiance to surpass the splendour of the sun, the moon, and the
stars, and to transcend the brightness of every lofty and glorious, every shining and brilliant light.
Nay, Thou hast illumined this Day, O my Best-Beloved, with the very lights of Thine own
inaccessible Being and with the full glory of Thine own exalted Essence.
Magniﬁed, then, be this Day whereon Thou hast revealed unto all things the effulgent lights
of Thy glorious unity and cast upon all creation the radiance of Thy sovereign and transcendent
oneness, the Day whereon Thou hast lifted the veil of concealment from the countenance of Thy
beauty; burned away, through Thy gracious favour, the shrouds of idle fancy blinding the eyes of
the people; and summoned all to partake of Thy nearness and reunion. Immensely gloriﬁed be this
Day whereon the oceans of splendour and grace have surged and the rivers of bounty and justice
have ﬂowed, a Day whereon Thy bounty hath attained such a degree that every stammering
tongue hath celebrated Thy praise, every blind eye hath beheld the lights of Thy beauty, and
every deaf ear hath hearkened unto the glorious strains of the Dove of Thy oneness.
On this Day the poor have been enriched through the wonders of Thine incomparable wealth,
the abased have been exalted through the manifold revelations of Thy majesty and glory, the
sinful have partaken of the wine of Thy forgiveness, the sick have quaffed from the waters of Thy
gracious healing, the disconsolate have taken refuge beneath the shade of the tree of Thy hope
and bestowal, and the destitute have attained the shores of the sea of Thy grace and favour.
Blind is the eye that faileth, on this Day, to behold Thee seated upon the throne of Thy
sovereignty, or to witness Thine undisputed authority over all that Thou hast created to be the
exponents of Thy names and attributes! Can any of Thy signs and tokens, O my God, be
confounded with those that pertain to Thy creatures? Nay, by Thy glory! Whatsoever proceedeth
from Thee and from Thy presence shineth as brightly as the noonday sun in the heaven of Thy
justice, whilst all else, even though it be among the treasures of Thy creation or of the
quintessence of Thy handiwork, fadeth into utter nothingness. And inasmuch as Thou hast4
5
6
7
8
9

assigned no partner unto Thyself, whatsoever is manifested from Thee hath likewise no peer or
equal. And even though Thou hast shed upon all created things the effulgent lights of Thy
sublime singleness, and nothing proceedeth from anything except it be manifested from Thee and
be created at Thy behest, yet that which appeareth from Thine own Self excelleth and surpasseth
all else in Thy heavens and on Thine earth, and thus the tokens of Thy glorious sovereignty are
revealed before the eyes of men and Thy testimony is fulﬁlled before all creation.
Since Thy bounty hath suffused the whole universe and the lights of Thy countenance have
illumined all created things, I beseech Thee by this Day, and by the hearts which Thou hast made
to be the repositories of Thy knowledge and inspiration and the treasuries of Thy revelation and
recognition, to grant that the signs of Thine undisputed ascendancy may shine above the horizon
of Thy command, that the showers of Thy surpassing mercy may rain from the heaven of Thy
grace, and that the tokens of Thy deliverance may appear through the operation of Thy sovereign
Will. Thus may Thy friends be released from the clutches of Thy foes, and Thy loved ones
delivered from the hands of the wayward among Thy servants, that they may extol Thee, O Lord,
with ringing voices in the supernal realms of Thy names and worship Thee with their entire
beings in the kingdom of Thine attributes. And thus may Thy Name be exalted, Thy testimony
established, Thy proof vindicated, Thy favour completed, Thy bounty fulﬁlled, Thy verses
promulgated, and Thy signs expounded, in such wise that the entire world may be ﬁlled with the
light of Thy countenance and all dominion may be Thine alone. No God is there but Thee, the
Omnipotent, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling.
I entreat Thee, moreover, O my God, by Thy Name through which the Bird of the celestial
Throne hath warbled in the Realm of the unseen the melodies of Thy transcendent unity, and the
Dove of Thy Revelation hath sung forth in the Kingdom of eternity the paeans of Thy sovereign
oneness, and the Holy Spirit hath magniﬁed in wondrous tones Thine everlasting glory—I entreat
Thee not to withhold from these servants the gentle breezes of the morn of Thy nearness and
presence, nor to suffer them to be far removed from the sweet savours of the dawn of Thy reunion
and recognition.
Grant, O my God, that this Festival may be a source of blessings for them and for all Thy
loved ones. Supply them, then, with all the good Thou didst ordain in the heaven of Thy decree
and purpose and in the Tablets of Thy protection and behest. Vanquish, then, O my God, in the
course of this year, their enemies through the power of Thy wrath and of Thy resistless might,
and ordain for them, O my God, all that I have asked of Thee and all that I have left unasked.
Endue them, then, with such constancy in Thy love and in Thy Cause, that they may never break
Thy Covenant nor violate Thy Testament to which they pledged themselves ere the creation of
the heavens and the earth. Render them victorious through the most wondrous means that lie hid
in the treasuries of Thy power and the repositories of Thy might, and grant them, O my God, to
attain the Hour Thou didst promise them in Thy latter Resurrection through the appearance of
the Manifestation of Thine all-glorious Self—for this in truth is the very object of their existence
and the existence of all things, the cause of their creation and the creation of all things. Suffer
them then, O my God, to submit to Thy will under all conditions. Verily, Thou art the Lord of grace
and bounty, of endless bestowal and unfettered sovereignty. And Thou art verily the Most Exalted,
the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.
I beg Thee moreover, O my God, by all the Exponents of Thy names and all the Revealers of
Thine attributes, not to number these Thy servants with those who outwardly observe the
Festivals associated with the advent of Thy Manifestation, who honour and glorify these days as
beseemeth their means and abilities, and yet who remain shut out as by a veil from the One Who
is, through His command and decree, the Author of these observances and of all else, for thus will
all their works be rendered vain, even though they perceive it not.
I implore Thee, O my God, by the appearance of Him Whom Thou hast manifested in these
days through Thy Name “He Who is Invoked”, and by His beauty, and His majesty, and the
afﬂictions He hath been made to suffer, and His divine fragrances, and His sweet accents, and His
grandeur, and His might, to grant that the eyes of Thy loved ones may be freed from the veils of
ignorance and blindness and from the obscuring mists of doubt and wretchedness. Perchance they10
11
12
13
14

may ﬁx their gaze upon the Tree of Thy Revelation and upon that which appeareth thereon of the
wondrous leaves of Thine ancient eternity and the precious fruits of Thy holy unity, may take
delight in them and in that which they contain of Thy hidden gifts and concealed knowledge, and
may rid themselves thereby of attachment to aught else. This, verily, is but perfect grace and
unalloyed blessing, and the very essence, origin, and ultimate abode thereof, for within the
compass of Thy knowledge there is naught higher than this grace nor sweeter than this blessing.
Thou, verily, art the King, the Omniscient, the Omnipotent, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, the
All-Wise.
12
ḤÚR-I-‘UJÁB
(TABLET OF THE WONDROUS MAIDEN)
The hallowed Beauty shone resplendent from behind the veil. How wondrous a thing, how
wondrous indeed!
And, lo, the ﬂame of rapture caused all souls to swoon away. How wondrous is this, how
wondrous indeed!
Rising up, they soared unto the blest pavilion ’neath the throne of heaven’s canopy. How
wondrous a mystery, how wondrous indeed!
Say: The Maiden of Eternity unveiled Her face—may her wondrous beauty be exalted indeed!
—
Shedding forth from earth to heaven its resplendent rays. How wondrous a light, how
wondrous indeed!
A lightning glance She cast, as piercing as a shooting star—how wondrous Her glance, how
wondrous indeed!—
A glance consuming every name and every title in its ﬂames. How wondrous a feat, how
wondrous indeed!
To the dwellers of the realm of dust She turned Her gaze. How wondrous Her gaze, how
wondrous indeed!
And then did all creation shake and pass away. How astounding a death, how astounding
indeed!
She then let fall a raven lock, an ornament of spirit in the darkest night—how wondrous a
hue, how wondrous indeed!—
From which the fragrant breezes of the spirit were perceived. How wondrous a scent, how
wondrous indeed!
In Her right hand She bore the ruby wine and in Her left a portion of the ﬁnest fare. How
wondrous a grace, how wondrous indeed!
With hands encrimsoned with Her ardent lovers’ blood—how wondrous is this, how wondrous
indeed!—
In cups and chalices She passed round the wine of life. How wondrous a draught, how
wondrous indeed!
With harp and lute She sang in praise of Her Beloved. How wondrous a song, how wondrous
indeed!
Whereat the hearts were melted in consuming ﬂames. How wondrous a love, how wondrous
indeed!
Of Her sustaining beauty She bestowed a boundless share—how wondrous a share, how
wondrous indeed!—
Then brought Her sword of charm upon Her lovers’ necks. How wondrous a blow, how
wondrous indeed!
Her pearl-like teeth did ﬂash, no sooner had She smiled. How wondrous a pearl, how
wondrous indeed!
Whereat the hearts of them that know cried out and wept. How wondrous a piety, how
wondrous indeed!1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

But they that doubt and boast of self denied Her truth. How astounding a denial, how
astounding indeed!
And, hearing this, in sorrow, She repaired to Her abode. How astounding Her grief, how
astounding indeed!
She returned from whence She came: How lofty were the steps She traced! How astounding a
decree, how astounding indeed!
She cried a cry of anguish, as to reduce all things to naught. How astounding Her woe, how
astounding indeed!
And from Her lips there streamed these words of warning and rebuke—how astounding a
stream, how astounding indeed!—
“Why do ye gainsay Me, O people of the Book?” How astounding is this, how astounding
indeed!
“Claim ye to be the guided and the loved ones of the Lord?” By God! How astounding a lie,
how astounding indeed!
“O my friends,” She said, “We shall not come again,”—how wondrous a return, how wondrous
indeed!—
“But will conceal God’s secrets in His Scriptures and His Books,” as bidden by One mighty and
bounteous indeed!
“Nor shall ye ﬁnd Me till the Promised One appear on Judgement Day.” By My life! How
astounding an abasement, how astounding indeed!
13
He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious.
Praise be to Thee, O Thou our Lord the Most Merciful! This is one of the days of the festival Thou
hast named Riḍván, a festival wherein Thou hast manifested Thy sovereignty over all who are in
Thy heavens and on Thine earth, notwithstanding that the people have arisen to harm Thee and
to extinguish Thy light, and wherein the Luminary of Thy oneness hath shone forth from the
dayspring of Thy House upon all things visible and invisible.
I beseech Thee, O my God, by this Day and by Him Whom Thou hast made to be the
Dawning-Place of Thy revelation and the Dayspring of Thine inspiration, to ordain for Thy loved
ones the good of this world and of the world to come, and to number them with those whom
naught can distract from Thy remembrance and praise. Strengthen, then, their hearts in such wise
that the ascendancy of those who have disbelieved in Thee and in Thy signs may never dismay
them.
O Lord! Illumine their eyes with the light of Thy knowledge, and their hearts with the
splendour of Thy countenance. Bind, then, their souls and spirits together, that through their unity
all the inhabitants of Thy dominion may become united.
Potent art Thou over all who are in the kingdoms of Thy revelation and Thy creation. Thou,
verily, art the Almighty, the All-Bountiful. Praised be Thou, O Lord of the worlds!
14
In the name of God, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful!
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O my God! I beseech Thee by this Day, and by Him Whom Thy sovereignty
and Thy majesty and Thy might have manifested therein, and by the tears which Thine ardent
lovers have shed in their remoteness and separation from Thee, and by the ﬁre that hath
consumed the hearts of them that yearn to behold Thy beauty, to send down upon us on this Day
that which beseemeth Thy beauty and becometh Thy grace and Thy generosity.
O Lord! We are but poor creatures who have detached ourselves from all save Thee, set our
faces towards the treasury of Thy wealth, and ﬂed from remoteness in the hope of approaching
Thee. Send down, then, upon us from the heaven of Thy Will that which will sanctify us from the21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
1
2
3
4
1
2

world and from all that pertaineth thereunto, and attire us with the raiment Thou hast purposed
for us through Thy grace and favours.
I beseech Thee moreover, O my God, by Thy Name which Thou hast made to be the treasury
of Thy knowledge, the repository of Thy revelation, and the fountainhead of Thine inspiration,
the Name through which Thou hast separated and united the faithful and the inﬁdels, to clothe us
in this Day with the vesture of Thy guidance and the mantle of Thy favour. Enable us, then, to
champion Thy Cause, to assist Thy Faith, and to speak forth Thy Name before all who are in Thy
heaven and on Thine earth, that every land may be ﬁlled with the wonders of Thy remembrance
and every face illumined with the light of Thy countenance.
O Lord! We bear witness that Thou art God and that there is none other God but Thee. We
testify that Thou hast from everlasting occupied so transcendent a station as to elude the grasp of
even them that have recognized Thee, and that Thou wilt abide unto everlasting in heights of
glory so inaccessible that the birds of the hearts of Thy devoted servants will forever fail to soar
into the atmosphere of Thy knowledge.
O Lord! All things bear witness to Thy unity, and whatsoever can be said to exist, whether
visible or invisible, testiﬁeth to Thy oneness. Thou, verily, hast sanctiﬁed Thy Self beyond the
knowledge of aught save Thee, and hast exalted Thine Essence above the mention of all else. All
the words and meanings that have been created in the realm of existence return, in the end, to
that Word which hath ﬂowed from the pen of Thy Command and the ﬁngers of Thy Decree. Every
great one is as naught before the evidences of Thy greatness, and every mighty one is as a thing
forgotten before the revelations of Thy transcendent might.
O Lord! Thou seest Thy loved ones encircled by the workers of iniquity. I beseech Thee by
that name of Thine whereby the ﬁre of Thy wrath was kindled and the ﬂames of Thine anger
were made to blaze, to lay hold upon them that have oppressed Thy loved ones. Send down then
upon us all that we have besought of the wonders of Thy grace and favour, and suffer us not to be
debarred from turning towards Thee and drawing nigh unto the sanctuary of Thy transcendent
oneness. Thou, verily, art that omnipotent One to Whose might all the atoms of the earth have
from all eternity borne witness, and to Whose majesty all created things will ever testify. Thou, in
truth, art the Lord of might and grandeur, and the Ruler of earth and heaven. No God is there but
Thee, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, Whose help is implored by all.
15
Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having cast in this Day the radiance of all Thy names upon all
created things, O Thou Who art the Lord of glory, majesty, and grandeur; of power, might, and
blessings! This is the Day whereon He Who is the Mouthpiece of God, the All-Possessing, the
Inaccessible, the Most High, hath called out from the realm of eternity, saying: “The Kingdom is
God’s, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Glorious!”
Lauded be Thy name, O Thou Who causest the winds to blow and the dawn to break, Who
revealest the verses and unveilest the proofs! All things proclaim that Thou art God, and that
there is none other God but Thee, the Sovereign, the All-Powerful, the Most Exalted, the Most
Great. Magniﬁed be Thy name, O Thou Who art the Fashioner of the heavens and the Creator of
all names, Who sheddest Thy splendour upon all things through the power of Thy Most Great
Name. This, verily, is the name whereby the Mystic Dove hath warbled upon the celestial bough,
proclaiming: “All dominion belongeth forever unto God, our Lord, the Most Merciful!”
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O King of eternity, and Ruler of the nations, and Quickener of every
mouldering bone! Praise be unto Thee, a praise that no earthly tongue can ever beﬁttingly extol, a
praise through which the outpourings of Thy mercy have rained upon all created things and the
light of Thy countenance hath shone upon all who are in heaven and on earth. Praise be unto
Thee, a praise that hath unloosed the tongue of every stammerer in Thy celebration, that hath
drawn every remote one nigh unto the seat of Thy mighty throne, and that hath guided every
thirsty one to the living waters of Thy bounty and the soft-ﬂowing streams of Thy favour. Praise
be unto Thee, a praise through which the fragrance of the robe of Thy mercy hath been wafted
upon all who are in heaven and on earth, and the sweet smell of the roses of Thy Paradise hath3
4
5
6
1
2
3

been diffused over the dwellers of the cities of eternity, and every name hath been made to extol
Thy remembrance and glory. Praise be unto Thee, a praise that hath endued the hearts of Thy
loved ones with such constancy that no earthly veil can hinder them from ﬁxing their gaze upon
the horizon of Thy bounties, nor can the ascendancy of the oppressors deter them from beholding
the wondrous light of Thy countenance. Praise be unto Thee, a praise that hath blotted out from
the hearts of Thy servants the mention of aught else save Thee and aided them to teach Thy
Cause and to blazon Thy remembrance in every region.
I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy most excellent names and Thy most exalted attributes, and
by them that have soared in the atmosphere of Thy nearness and good-pleasure and taken ﬂight
upon the wings of trust and detachment towards the Dayspring of Thy name, the All-Merciful,
and by the blood that hath been shed for Thy sake, and by the sighs that have been uttered for
Thy love, to accept from us on this day all our works in Thy path.
This is the Day whereon the All-Merciful shed the splendour of His effulgence upon all
names. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon He Who is the Hidden and the Unseen appeared before the eyes of
all creation. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon the Most Great Idol was shattered. All glory be to that which God
hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon the Lord of mercy revealed Himself unto all creation. All glory be to
that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon Pharaoh was drowned and Moses beheld Him Who is the Beauty of
the All-Glorious Lord. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon the false gods of idle fancy were overthrown through the power of
our Lord, the Almighty, the All-Knowing. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon the billows of the Most Great Ocean were made manifest in the
Scene of transcendent glory. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon all created things were summoned to the presence of their Lord, the
Inaccessible, the Most High. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
This is the Day whereon all things testiﬁed to that whereunto the Tongue of Power hath
testiﬁed before the Divine Lote-Tree. All glory be to that which God hath bestowed upon us!
16
In the name of God, Who hath cast His splendour over all creation!
O concourse of earth and heaven! Give ear to the testimony of God that proceedeth from the
mouth of your Lord, the All-Glorious. He verily hath testiﬁed, in Himself and by Himself, ere the
heaven of His Cause was raised up and the clouds of His Decree were gathered together, that
there is none other God but Him, and that He Who hath appeared is that Most Great Name
through which His ancient proof and testimony have been established before all who are in the
heavens and on the earth.
Verily God hath testiﬁed, in Himself and by Himself, and in His inmost Essence, that there is
none other God but Him and that He Who is come through the power of truth is the
Manifestation of His most excellent names and the Dawning-Place of His most exalted attributes.
Through Him the voice of the mystic Morn rang out from the horizon of eternity and the Most
Great Spirit spoke forth before the Divine Lote-Tree, saying: “This, verily, is He Who hath been
intended in the Cities of Names and mentioned in the Tablets revealed from the empyrean of the
Will of your Lord, the Ruler of earth and heaven. He, indeed, is the most great Instrument amidst
the nations, Who hath come to regenerate the whole world.”
Verily God hath testiﬁed, in Himself and by Himself, and ere the creation of the world and the
manifestation of His names and attributes, that there is none other God but Him, and that He
Who is come upon the clouds of divine decree is the Trust of God amongst you and the Revealer
of His Essence in your midst.4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
1
2
3

We verily behold, at this hour and from His realm, all the denizens of earth and heaven, and
summon them to this Beauty that hath solaced the eyes of the inmates of Paradise and the
dwellers of the tabernacle of holiness, them that have ﬁxed their gaze on this Scene of resplendent
glory and whom the veils of human limitations have failed to debar from beholding the
countenance of God, the Almighty, the Most Wondrous. He it is Who proclaimeth within all
things: “Verily, I am your Lord, the Merciful, the Compassionate. From time immemorial I was a
Treasure hidden in a station unknown to all save Mine own Self, the All-Knowing, the All-
Informed. Cast away all that ye possess and soar on the wings of detachment into this atmosphere
wherein waft the breezes of the mercy of your Lord, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.”
By My life! The Day is come which from all eternity was concealed in the treasuries of the
might of your Lord. Rejoice in this blessed, this glorious and sublime Day. For He verily is Mine
own Appearance amongst you, and whoso maketh the slightest distinction between Him and Me
hath indeed strayed far from the straight path of truth. He it is Who hath caused the Mystic Dove
to warble upon the twigs of the Tree of glory, saying: “By the one true God! The Best-Beloved of
the worlds is come!”
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord my God! Can anyone beﬁttingly thank Thee for such blessings as
Thou hast sent down from the heaven of Thy oneness and the ﬁrmament of Thy Will, blessings
which Thou hast reserved for the people of Bahá in the realm of creation? Nay, by Thy might, O
Thou the Beloved of the worlds and the sole Desire of them that have recognized Thee! Wert Thou
to endow every creature of earth and heaven with a myriad tongues, even to the number of the
atoms of the universe, and were they to yield Thee thanks, so long as Thy kingdom and Thy
dominion endure, for the bounties which Thou hast bestowed upon Thy loved ones in this Day—a
Day whereon Thou hast revealed Thyself in Thine own Essence and inmost Being to the dwellers
of earth and heaven, and in Thy Beauty to the inhabitants of the cities of eternity, and through
Thy Names to them that are immersed in the billowing oceans of grandeur—yet would their
thanksgiving fade into nothingness before that which Thou hast bestowed upon them through
Thy grace and bounty.
I know not, O my God, which among Thy gifts to extol in this Day, a Day that Thou hast
made to be the source of all Thy days and the dawning-place whence the rays of the light of
Thine Essence and the splendours of the glory of Thy countenance have shone forth. Shall I praise
the heavenly repast which Thou hast sent down in this Day unto the people of Bahá, whom Thou
hast singled out for Thy favour amongst the dwellers of earth and heaven? This, verily, is a
sustenance borne in the vessel of Thy words, from every letter of which a myriad suns of divine
wisdom and utterance dawn forth and the lights of authority and exposition shine resplendent.
This, verily, is a sustenance whose substance is such inner meanings as had from everlasting lain
concealed within Thine inviolable treasuries and hidden beneath the tabernacles of Thy glory. Or
shall I, O my God, extol Thine appearance in this Day from the dawning-place of Thine Essence;
or Thine establishment, before the gaze of all men, upon the throne of Thy name, the All-
Bountiful; or yet Thy proclamation, through the Tongue of might and power, to all things visible
and invisible? By Myself, the True One! The Hidden Secret and Treasured Mystery hath been
revealed. Whosoever seeketh Me shall behold Me.
I swear by Thy glory, O Fashioner of names and Creator of earth and heaven! The tongues of
Thy creatures are powerless to render thanks for the favours Thou hast bestowed upon them in
this Day, a Day from which Thou hast made all Thy days to proceed. This is the Day whereon
Thou hast summoned the well-favoured to the Dayspring of Thy nearness and the sincere to the
Dawning-Place of the light of Thy countenance. This is the Day concerning which Thou didst
covenant with every Prophet to herald unto all the advent of Him Who shall be manifested
therein with Thy sovereign might and celestial power.
This is the Day whereon Muḥammad, the Apostle of God, cried out from the midmost heart of
Paradise, saying: “O peoples of the earth! By God, the Beloved of the worlds and the Desire of
every understanding heart is come! He, verily, is the One to Whose voice I hearkened on My Night
Journey but Whose beauty I was not to behold until the days attained their consummation in this
Day, a Day which is the adornment of all the days of God, the Sovereign Lord, the Almighty, the4
5
6
7
8
9

All-Praised. This is the Day whereon the rule of His grace and all-pervading mercy hath been so
universally established as to embrace every soul, for He hath in truth summoned each and all to
His presence and hath shed upon all things the splendour of His glorious and refulgent beauty.”
This is the Day whereon the Spirit5 proclaimed from the midmost heart of heaven: “O
concourse of creation! He Who is the sovereign Ruler of all hath been made manifest. That which
pertaineth to the Kingdom of My Lord hath been fulﬁlled. He Who is the Beloved of My heart and
the Helper of My Cause is now come. Follow Him, and be not of those that have turned aside. This
is the Day whereon every veil hath been parted, and your Lord, the Almighty, the Most Bountiful,
hath appeared and fulﬁlled through His appearance all that was promised aforetime. Hasten then
to this resplendent, this most luminous Beauty!
“O priests! Tell Our servants to ring not the bells save in His name, the All-Glorious, the Most
High. This is the Day whereon the sore athirst have attained the stream of everlasting life and the
yearning souls have beheld the Vision of the All-Merciful. This is the Day whereon the lowly have
been exalted, the poor enriched, the sick made whole, the deaf given to hear His melody, and the
blind made to see. Render thanks, then, and be not of those who join partners with God. The
Kingdom of God doth in truth circle round Him. It is for His sake that I adorned the cross with My
body and then arose from the dead to perfect His remembrance amongst men.
“O people of the Gospel! Take heed lest ye direct your prayers towards Me after having
turned away from Mine all-glorious Father, Who changed, through His love, Abraham’s ﬁre into
light. He who awaiteth another when once He hath appeared is indeed in grievous error. Hasten,
then, to the river of the mercy of your Lord, the All-Merciful, and beware lest ye withhold
yourselves from its soft-ﬂowing waters. We have, verily, reared you for this Day. Peruse ye the
Book, that ye may apprehend the meaning of My words in My days. Verily, I revealed Myself only
for the sake of His Cause, and I came amongst you solely to herald the Kingdom of God, your Lord
and the Lord of the worlds. That which was hidden is now revealed, and that which was concealed
is now come. Bestir yourselves to greet this Day, a Day whereon the gates of heaven have been
ﬂung open, and the clouds of eternity have rained down, and the Nightingale of His Cause hath
warbled its melody upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-Tree, and the hearts of the Concourse on
high have been seized with longing in the all-highest Paradise, and the Maids of Heaven have
hastened forth from their celestial chambers towards His mighty Throne. Cast away all that ye
possess and cleave unto that which hath been enjoined upon you by this Ancient Beauty.
“O concourse of divines! Still your pens, for the Pen of Glory hath spoken. Lay aside your
books, for the Book hath appeared that compriseth all that hath been said aforetime and sufﬁceth
all the inhabitants of the earth. Rise above the horizon of certitude in the name of your Lord, the
All-Merciful, and tear asunder the veils that have come between you and the Lord of all creation.
“Thus commandeth you the Spirit, Who offered up His life that the world might be quickened
and that the Desire of every heart might appear. And He, verily, hath appeared through the power
of truth. Follow Him, and cling not unto that which ye possess of the proclamations of former
times. For the trumpet-blast hath been sounded, and lo! the earth of idle fancy hath been cleft
asunder; and the Tongue of Grandeur hath spoken from the pavilion of glory, saying: The Kingdom
in this Day is God’s, the All-Possessing, the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Great! The dead
have risen and the souls have been gathered together, and yet still We behold you entombed in the
sepulchres of heedlessness and desire. Fear God, O people! Rise from amongst the dead and turn
your faces towards the Dayspring of His grace which shineth above this resplendent horizon. I,
verily, await His command, that by His leave I might descend into the world, even as I ascended
from it. He, verily, hath the power to ordain whatsoever He pleaseth.
“O followers of the Gospel! Do ye seek Jerusalem, when He Who built the House of God
therein by a mere indication of His will hath come? Far have ye wandered in the paths of error! Of
a certainty, no deed will be accepted in this Day unless it be performed by His leave, and the
invocation of no soul shall rise up unto God unless it be uttered for His love. Thus hath the decree
been fulﬁlled and the command established by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Knowing.”
This is the Day whereon Moses lifted up His voice from the Sinai of Our name, the Almighty,
saying: “O people! Verily the Day is come! This is He at Whose separation I wept sore in the10
11
12
13
14
15
16

desert of longing, and for Whose love I bewailed in the wilderness of ardent love. And when I
purposed to enter the sanctuary of His nearness and to gaze upon His beauty, He restrained Me
through the power of His sovereign might and withheld Me from the desire of My heart.
Whereupon He addressed Me, saying: ‘Thou shalt never behold Me!’ and returned Me to the
splendours of the lights of His mighty Throne. Such was the longing with which I was then
consumed as I am powerless to describe and the ears of the true believers unable to hear. But lo,
He hath now appeared with the power of truth and unveiled to you His beauty. At every moment
He proclaimeth: ‘O concourse of creation, look and ye shall behold Me!’ By God, this is the Word
that hath proceeded from the mouth of the Will of your Lord, the All-Merciful. It behoveth you to
offer up your souls for His sake, if ye be of them that judge with fairness. Thus have I informed
you, O people, of Him Whose remoteness hath lacerated My heart and Who hath made Me to
quaff the cup of separation. Bear witness unto Him, and be not of the heedless. Blessed are your
eyes for having beheld, and your ears for having hearkened. And woe unto them that have
deprived themselves of this resplendent Vision.”
This is the Day whereon the Point of the Bayán6 called out from the midmost heart of
Paradise, saying: “O people! This is He in Whose path I laid down My life. This is He for Whose
sake I revealed Myself and of Whose presence I bore unto you the most joyful tidings. Beware lest
ye deny the One but for Whom the Day-Star of the Bayán would never have dawned nor would
the verses of the All-Merciful have been revealed. By God! He it is Who caused the morn of inner
meaning and explanation to break, and the gates of divine reunion to be opened before the faces
of all the peoples of the earth. It is by His Name that the cities of names have been adorned; it is
by His remembrance that the hearts of the chosen ones have been set ablaze. Beware lest ye deal
with Him as ye dealt with Me. I testify that I was but a herald of His Revelation unto all who are
in heaven and on earth, and that I conditioned the Bayán upon His leave and good-pleasure. I
swear by God! It is for His love that I rose up amongst you and consorted with you. Were it not for
Him, I would assuredly not have revealed a single word or verse. Cling ye to the hem of the robe
of His mercy, and hold fast to the cord of His love. This is the Day whereon every atom
proclaimeth: ‘By the Possessor of all names and attributes! Verily, He Who is invoked by all that
are in heaven is now come!’”
Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having adorned the preamble of the book of eternity with
this most luminous Day, a Day whereon Thou didst shed the splendour of Thy most excellent
names and most exalted attributes upon all created things. This, verily, is a Day whereon Thou
hast ordained that each of Thy names be endowed with the potentialities of all Thy names.
Blessed, then, be they that have turned towards Thee, attained Thy presence, and hearkened unto
Thy call.
O Lord, my God! I beseech Thee by this Day, and by Thy most consummate Name through
which the Most Great Ocean hath surged, to protect the people of Bahá from them that have
disbelieved in Thy mighty signs. Make them then, O my God, to be the exponents of Thine
ascendancy and Thy might, that they may arise to glorify Thee and to celebrate Thy praise amidst
Thy servants, in such wise that neither the veils of the people of the earth, nor their insinuations,
nor the onslaught of them that have arisen to put out Thy light, may keep them back from Thee.
O God! Deprive them not of the gentle breezes that are wafting in this Day, a Day whereon every
atom proclaimeth: “Verily, Thou art God; no God is there but Thee!” O Lord, adorn them with the
ornaments of constancy and certitude, and cause them to be champions of Thy Cause amidst all
creation.
O my God and the God of all the worlds! O my desire and the desire of every understanding
heart! I implore Thee, by Him Who hath caused the sun of Thy revelation and inspiration to
dawn, to ordain for the people of this Day that which Thou hast ordained for the chosen ones
amongst Thy servants. Send down then upon them such liberal effusions of Thy grace as none
hath previously attained, and cause them to circle round the court of Thy nearness and the
sanctuary of Thy presence. Inspire them, then, in Thy Cause with that which setteth ablaze the
hearts and souls of men. Make each one of them to be as a lamp of Thy remembrance unto those17
18
19
20

servants of Thine whom self and passion have veiled from recognizing the Manifestation of Thine
Essence and the Dayspring of Thy signs.
O Lord! Thou art He to Whose power and sovereignty every mighty one hath testiﬁed, and to
Whose majesty and grace every great one hath borne witness. Bestow, then, upon Thy loved ones
that which beseemeth this Day, a Day which Thou hast made to be a luminous ornament upon
the brow of all Thy days, and which Thou hast caused to shine above the horizon of eternity. Send
down then upon them, from the clouds of Thy oneness and the heaven of Thy grace, that which
will enable them to dispense with aught else except Thee.
O Lord! Give them to drink, from the hands of Thy mercy, a draught from that river of
everlasting life that ﬂoweth from the right hand of Thy Throne, and aid them to abide by that
which Thou hast revealed in Thy perspicuous Book. Thou, verily, ordainest as Thou pleasest. No
God is there but Thee, the Most Exalted, the Sovereign Protector, the All-Compelling, the
Almighty, the Most Bountiful.
17
In the name of God, the Almighty, the Unconstrained!
Praise be to Thee, O my God, for having gathered together Thy loved ones to celebrate Thy Most
Great Festival, whereon Thou didst shed the splendour of Thy most excellent names upon all who
are in heaven and on earth, the Festival whereon the Day-Star of truth hath shone resplendent
above the horizon of Thy will and the Ancient King ascended the throne of Thy mercy.
This is the ninth day of Riḍván, O my God, and on this day one of Thy loved ones hath, as a
token of his love for Thy Beauty and in the eagerness of his devotion to Thee, invited Him Who is
the Manifestation of Thy Self and the Dayspring of Thy glory to leave His room in the prison for
another. There he hath spread before Thy presence such of Thy gifts as he hath been able to
provide, notwithstanding that the people had plundered all his possessions and the possessions of
others among Thy loved ones. O Lord, since Thou hast gathered them round Thee and aided them
to attain this surpassing grace, endue them with constancy in Thy Cause and bind their hearts
together in such wise that no differences may arise in their midst. Grant, then, that they may
guide all people unto this Luminary, the like of which the eye of creation hath never beheld and
which standeth peerless in the realms of the seen and the unseen.
Thou well knowest, O Lord, that it hath been the desire of all that circle round Thee to receive
Thee during the days of Riḍván. A few have been enabled, in accordance with their means, to
attain this honour, while others, through its want, have been prevented therefrom. These have
contented themselves with passing round in white vessels that crimson-coloured wine that is
brewed from the leaves of China.7 I beseech Thee, O my God, by Thy Word which Thou hast made
to be the lodestone of the hearts and souls of men, the Word whereby Thou hast drawn Thy
servants unto the heaven of Thy loving-kindness and the horizon of Thy grace and bounty, to
accept from the former all that they have accomplished in Thy path and to ordain for the latter
the recompense of whatsoever they had purposed to accomplish. Thou, verily, art the Lord of
bounty and generosity, of grace and glory. O Lord, help certain souls among them to know their
own selves and to restrain their tongues, lest they utter that which would abase their stations and
bring their works to naught. Thou, verily, hast power over all things.
Thou hearest, O Lord, the lamentations of the sincere amongst Thy loved ones who were
hindered from meeting Thee during these days, days which Thou hast ordained as a festival unto
Thy people and as a treasure and honour unto the inhabitants of Thy realm.… Accept from them,
O Lord, that which they have purposed in their love for Thee, and ordain for each and every one of
them the recompense of such as have attained unto every good Thou hast in store. Thou, verily,
hast power over all things.
Look Thou moreover, O my God, with the glances of the eye of Thy mercy, upon Thy loved
ones who are scattered in the land of Ḥá.8 They have tarried there ever since they were prevented
from seeking shelter beneath the shade of the Tree of Thy oneness. O Lord, deny them not the
things Thou dost possess. Verily, Thou art the Ruler of the heavens and of the earth. No God is21
22
1
2
3
4
5

there but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Wise. Praise be to Thee, O Lord of the worlds and Desire of
all them that have recognized Thee!
The glory of Thy might beareth me witness, O my God! It behoveth all to lay down their lives
for the sake of Thine ear that heareth the cries of Thine ardent lovers in every land and the sighs
of Thy friends who suffer at the hands of Thine enemies. Verily, the voice of their lamentation
hath been raised on account of their love for Thee, and their hearts are consumed with the ﬁre of
separation in Thy days. May my soul be a ransom for Thy long-suffering, O Countenance of glory,
and may my spirit be a sacriﬁce for Thy forbearance, O Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of
earth and heaven!
I swear by Thy glory, O Beloved of them that yearn after Thee and Desire of those who
cherish Thy love! Were any man of insight to press upon this holy Tablet, he would see the blood
of my heart ﬂowing from it, a blood that hath melted for the love of Thee and of those who have
been hindered from beholding Thy face after having directed their steps towards Thee and having
come to abide within the city or its precincts. May my entire being be offered up as a sacriﬁce for
Thy patience, O Lord of might and power! May my soul be a ransom for Thy forbearance, O Thou
the fear of Whose wrath causeth the hearts of the dwellers of the kingdom of names to tremble!
Praise be to Thee, O solace of the hearts of the people of Bahá! I testify, O my God, that none
besides Thee can fathom Thine inscrutable wisdom or apprehend the truths and mysteries
enshrined in all that hath proceeded from the manifold tokens of Thy power and the
manifestations of Thy will. I entreat Thee moreover, O my God, to graciously enable my loved
ones to show their hospitality unto Thee through their character and their conduct, that the
heavenly table of Thy loving-kindness may thereby be spread before all Thy servants and that all
the peoples of the world may gather round it. This, verily, is the true meaning of offering
hospitality unto one’s fellow men. Thy might and Thy power are, verily, equal to all things. Praise
be to Thee, O Lord of the worlds, Thou Whose power embraceth the heavens and the earth!
18
In the name of God, the Most Glorious!
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord my God! This is one of the days of Thy Riḍván Festival whereon Thou
didst shed the splendour of Thy name, the All-Merciful, upon all the peoples of the earth, and
didst manifest Thy power and Thy sovereignty unto all created things. Thou seest, O Lord, how on
this day one of Thy loved ones hath invited the Manifestation of Thine Essence from His room to
another room in this prison, wherein a gathering hath been held in Thy name and adorned with
the ornament of Thine own Self, in such wise that the Sun of Thy beauty hath shone forth above
its horizon. Blessed be the one who hath attained thereunto, blessed the day that hath been
honoured with Thy revelation, and blessed the land that hath been illumined by the light of Thy
Countenance.
O Lord! Ordain for him, and for Thy servants who have been hindered from meeting Thee, the
recompense decreed for such as have attained Thy presence and convened a gathering to exalt
Thy name and Thy remembrance. Write down, then, for them what Thou hast written down for
such as enjoy near access to Thee. Thy might, in truth, is equal to all things.
19
He is God.
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord my God! This is one of the days of Thy Riḍván Festival whereon a
corner of this prison hath been decked forth for the appearance of Him Who is the Exponent of
Thy beauty, granting the request of one whose ardent devotion hath prompted him to invite Thee.
All praise be to Thee, inasmuch as Thou hast, as a token of Thy bounty unto them that abide
beneath Thy shadow and circle round Thy being, shone forth on this day above the horizon of the
prison with such splendour as to illumine the entire creation.6
7
8
1
2
1

This is the Day whereon Thou didst unloose Thy tongue and bestow in abundance the gems
of inner meaning and utterance upon the peoples of the world. Quicken, then, O Lord, through this
heavenly cup, all who dwell on earth, and ordain that which will be proﬁtable unto those among
the people of Bahá who long to behold Thy face, but whom the misdeeds of Thine enemies have
debarred therefrom, O King of Names and Ruler of earth and heaven. Bestow upon them,
moreover, a portion of Thy manifold bounties in these days whereon every abased one hath been
exalted, every faithful soul invested with Thy grace, every chilled heart enkindled, every poor one
enriched, and every seeker sent forth upon the path.
Lauded art Thou, O Lord, for having singled out Thy loved ones and chosen them from
amongst Thy people, and for having turned Thy gaze towards them from this spot wherein He
Who is the Embodiment of Thy Cause lieth imprisoned. O Lord, withhold not from them the
things Thou dost possess, but so enrapture their hearts through the breezes of Thy Revelation that
they may detach themselves from all else but Thee and set their faces towards the court of Thy
grace and generosity. Potent art Thou to do what Thou pleasest, and powerful art Thou over all
things. All praise be to Thee, O Desire of the worlds!
20
He is the Most Holy, the Most Glorious.
All praise be to Thee, O Lord my God! This is one of the days of Thy Riḍván Festival whereon a
servant of Thine hath extended an invitation to the Manifestation of Thine Essence and the
Revealer of Thy Sovereignty, and hath decked forth a place in the prison to receive Thine all-
glorious Beauty, O Thou Who art the Lord of earth and heaven! All glory be to this hour wherein
He Who is the Dayspring of Thy transcendent might hath directed His steps from one room of the
prison to another. I beseech Thee, O Thou Who art the King of Names and Creator of earth and
heaven, to write down for such of Thy loved ones as have been debarred from entering the
precincts of Thy mercy and standing before the throne of Thy might the recompense decreed for
such as have attained Thy presence and beheld Him Who is Thy Beauty.
Thou hearest, O Lord, their sighs and lamentations in their separation and remoteness from
Thee. I beseech Thee to ordain for them all the good Thou dost possess. Potent art Thou to do as
Thou willest. No God is there but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Praised.
21
LAWH-I-‘ÁSHIQ VA MA‘SHÚQ
(TABLET OF THE LOVER AND THE BELOVED)
He is the Exalted, the Transcendent, the All-Highest.
Release yourselves, O nightingales of God, from the thorns and brambles of wretchedness and
misery, and wing your ﬂight to the rose-garden of unfading splendour. O My friends that dwell
upon the dust! Haste forth unto your celestial habitation. Announce unto yourselves the joyful
tidings: “He Who is the Best-Beloved is come! He hath crowned Himself with the glory of God’s
Revelation, and hath unlocked to the face of men the doors of His ancient Paradise.” Let all eyes
rejoice, and let every ear be gladdened, for now is the time to gaze on His beauty, now is the ﬁt
time to hearken to His voice. Proclaim unto every longing lover: “Behold, your Well-Beloved hath
come among men!” and to the messengers of the Monarch of love impart the tidings: “Lo, the
Adored One hath appeared arrayed in the fullness of His glory!” O lovers of His beauty! Turn the
anguish of your separation from Him into the joy of an everlasting reunion, and let the sweetness
of His presence dissolve the bitterness of your remoteness from His court.
Behold how the manifold grace of God, which is being showered from the clouds of Divine
glory, hath, in this day, encompassed the world. For whereas in days past every lover besought and
searched after his Beloved, it is the Beloved Himself Who now is calling His lovers and is inviting
them to attain His presence. Take heed lest ye forfeit so precious a favour; beware lest ye belittle2
3
1
2
1
2

so remarkable a token of His grace. Abandon not the incorruptible beneﬁts, and be not content
with that which perisheth. Lift up the veil that obscureth your vision, and dispel the darkness
with which it is enveloped, that ye may gaze on the naked beauty of the Beloved’s face, may
behold that which no eye hath beheld, and hear that which no ear hath heard.
Hear Me, ye mortal birds! In the Rose-Garden of changeless splendour a Flower hath begun to
bloom, compared to which every other ﬂower is but a thorn, and before the brightness of Whose
glory the very essence of beauty must pale and wither. Arise, therefore, and, with the whole
enthusiasm of your hearts, with all the eagerness of your souls, the full fervour of your will, and
the concentrated efforts of your entire being, strive to attain the paradise of His presence, and
endeavour to inhale the fragrance of the incorruptible Flower, to breathe the sweet savours of
holiness, and to obtain a portion of this perfume of celestial glory. Whoso followeth this counsel
will break his chains asunder, will taste the abandonment of enraptured love, will attain unto his
heart’s desire, and will surrender his soul into the hands of his Beloved. Bursting through his cage,
he will, even as the bird of the spirit, wing his ﬂight to his holy and everlasting nest.
Night hath succeeded day, and day hath succeeded night, and the hours and moments of your
lives have come and gone, and yet none of you hath, for one instant, consented to detach himself
from that which perisheth. Bestir yourselves, that the brief moments that are still yours may not
be dissipated and lost. Even as the swiftness of lightning your days shall pass, and your bodies
shall be laid to rest beneath a canopy of dust. What can ye then achieve? How can ye atone for
your past failure?
The everlasting Candle shineth in its naked glory. Behold how it hath consumed every mortal
veil. O ye moth-like lovers of His light! Brave every danger, and consecrate your souls to its
consuming ﬂame. O ye that thirst after Him! Strip yourselves of every earthly affection, and
hasten to embrace your Beloved. With a zest that none can equal make haste to attain unto Him.
The Flower, thus far hidden from the sight of men, is unveiled to your eyes. In the open radiance
of His glory He standeth before you. His voice summoneth all the holy and sanctiﬁed beings to
come and be united with Him. Happy is he that turneth thereunto; well is it with him that hath
attained, and gazed on the light of so wondrous a countenance.
22
In Thy name, the Most Wondrous, the Most Glorious!
Since Thou hast, O my God, stablished Thyself upon the throne of Thy transcendent unity, and
ascended the mercy-seat of Thy oneness, it beﬁtteth Thee to blot out from the hearts of all beings
whatsoever may keep them back from gaining admittance into the sanctuary of Thy Divine
mysteries, and may shut them out from the tabernacle of Thy Divinity, that all hearts may mirror
Thy beauty, and may reveal Thee, and speak of Thee, and that all created things may show forth
the tokens of Thy most august sovereignty, and shed the splendours of the light of Thy most holy
governance, and that all who are in heaven and on earth may laud and magnify Thy unity, and
give Thee glory, for having manifested Thy Self unto them through Him Who is the Revealer of
Thy oneness.
Divest, then, Thy servants, O my God, of the garments of self and desire, or grant that the
eyes of Thy people may be lifted up to such heights that they will discern in their desires naught
except the stirring of the gentle winds of Thine eternal glory, and may recognize in their own
selves nothing but the revelation of Thine own merciful Self, that the earth and all that is therein
may be cleansed of whatever is alien to Thee, or anything that manifesteth aught save Thy Self.
All this can be fulﬁlled throughout Thy dominion by Thy word of command, “Be,” and it is! Nay,
even swifter than this, and yet the people understand not.
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, O my Beloved! I swear by Thy glory! I recognize
this very moment that Thou hast granted all for which I have supplicated Thee, in this blessed
night which, as decreed by Thee, calleth to remembrance Him Who was the Companion of Thy
beauty and the Beholder of Thy face, ere I had been mentioned by Thee, or called into being
within the court of Thy holiness. I perceive that Thou hast made all things to be the3
4
5
1
2
3

manifestations of Thy behest, and the revelations of Thy handiwork, and the repositories of Thy
knowledge, and the treasuries of Thy wisdom. I recognize, moreover, that were any of the
revelations of Thy names and Thine attributes to be withheld, though it be the weight of a grain
of mustard seed, from whatsoever hath been created by Thy power and begotten by Thy might,
the foundations of Thine everlasting handiwork would thereby be made incomplete, and the gems
of Thy Divine wisdom would become imperfect. For the letters of negation, no matter how far
they may be removed from the holy fragrances of Thy knowledge, and however forgetful they
may become of the wondrous splendours of the dawning-light of Thy beauty, which are shed from
the heaven of Thy majesty, must needs exist in Thy realm, so that the words which afﬁrm Thee
may thereby be exalted.
Thy might beareth me witness, O my Well-Beloved! The entire creation hath been called into
being to exalt Thy triumph and to establish Thine ascendancy, and all the bounds that have been
set by Thee are but the signs of Thy sovereignty, and proclaim the power of Thy might. How
great, how very great, are the revelations of Thy wondrous power in all things! They are such that
the lowliest among Thy creatures hath been made by Thee a manifestation of Thy most august
attribute, and the most contemptible token of Thy handiwork hath been chosen as a recipient of
Thy most mighty name. Poverty, as decreed by Thee, hath been made the means for the
revelation of Thy riches, and abasement a path leading to Thy glory, and sinfulness a cause for the
exercise of Thy forgiveness. By them Thou hast demonstrated that to Thee belong Thy most
excellent titles, and unto Thee pertain the wonders of Thy most exalted attributes.
Since Thou hast purposed, O my God, to cause all created things to enter into the tabernacle
of Thy transcendent grace and favour, and to waft over the entire creation the fragrances of the
raiment of Thy glorious unity, and to look upon all things with the eyes of Thy bounty and Thy
oneness, I beseech Thee, therefore, by Thy love, which Thou hast made to be the mainspring of
the revelations of Thine eternal holiness, and the ﬂame that gloweth within the hearts of such of
Thy creatures as yearn towards Thee, to create, this very moment, for those of Thy people who
are wholly devoted to Thee, and for such of Thy loved ones as love Thee, out of the essence of
Thy bounty and Thy generosity, and from the inmost spirit of Thy grace and Thy glory, Thy
Paradise of transcendent holiness, and to exalt it above everything except Thee, and to sanctify it
from aught else save Thyself. Create, moreover, within it, O my God, out of the lights shed by Thy
throne, handmaidens who will intone the melodies of Thy wondrous and most sweet invention,
that they may magnify Thy name with such words as have not been heard by any of Thy
creatures, be they the inmates of Thy heaven or the dwellers of Thine earth, nor been
comprehended by any of Thy people. Unlock, then, the gates of this Paradise to the faces of Thy
loved ones, that haply they may enter them in Thy name, and by the power of Thy sovereignty,
that thereby the sovereign bounties vouchsafed by Thee unto Thy chosen ones and the
transcendent gifts granted unto Thy trusted ones may be perfected, that they may extol Thy
virtues with such melodies as none can either intone or describe, and that none of Thy people
may conceive the design of appearing in the guise of any of Thy chosen ones, or of emulating the
example of Thy loved ones, and that none may fail to discern between Thy friends and Thine
enemies, or to distinguish them that are devoted to Thee from such as stubbornly oppose Thee.
Potent art Thou to do what Thou willest, and powerful and supreme art Thou over all things.
Exalted, immeasurably exalted art Thou, O my Beloved, above the strivings of any of Thy
creatures, however learned, to know Thee; exalted, immensely exalted art Thou above every
human attempt, no matter how searching, to describe Thee! For the highest thought of men,
however deep their contemplation, can never hope to outsoar the limitations imposed upon Thy
creation, nor ascend beyond the state of the contingent world, nor break the bounds irrevocably set
for it by Thee. How can, then, a thing that hath been created by Thy will that overruleth the
whole of creation, a thing that is itself a part of the contingent world, have the power to soar into
the holy atmosphere of Thy knowledge, or reach unto the seat of Thy transcendent power?
High, immeasurably high art Thou above the endeavours of the evanescent creature to soar
unto the throne of Thine eternity, or of the poor and wretched to attain the summit of Thine all-
sufﬁcing glory! From eternity Thou didst Thyself describe Thine own Self unto Thy Self, and extol,4
5
6
7

in Thine own Essence, Thine Essence unto Thine Essence. I swear by Thy glory, O my Best-
Beloved! Who is there besides Thee that can claim to know Thee, and who save Thyself can make
ﬁtting mention of Thee? Thou art He Who, from eternity, abode in His realm, in the glory of His
transcendent unity, and the splendours of His holy grandeur. Were any one except Thee to be
deemed worthy of mention, in all the kingdoms of Thy creation, from the highest realms of
immortality down to the level of this nether world, how could it, then, be demonstrated that Thou
art established upon the throne of Thy unity, and how could the wondrous virtues of Thy oneness
and Thy singleness be gloriﬁed?
I bear witness, this very moment, to what Thou hast testiﬁed for Thine own Self, ere Thou
hadst created the heavens and the earth, that Thou art God, and that there is none other God
besides Thee. Thou hast from everlasting been potent, through the Manifestations of Thy might,
to reveal the signs of Thy power, and Thou hast ever made known, through the Daysprings of Thy
knowledge, the words of Thy wisdom. No one besides Thee hath ever been found worthy to be
mentioned before the Tabernacle of Thy unity, and none except Thyself hath proved himself
capable of being praised within the hallowed court of Thy oneness.
Praise be to Thee, O my God, that Thou hast revealed Thy favours and Thy bounties; and
glory be to Thee, O my Beloved, that Thou hast manifested the Day-Star of Thy loving-kindness
and Thy tender mercies. I yield Thee such thanks as can direct the steps of the wayward towards
the splendours of the morning light of Thy guidance, and enable those who yearn towards Thee to
attain the seat of the revelation of the effulgence of Thy beauty. I yield Thee such thanks as can
cause the sick to draw nigh unto the waters of Thy healing, and can help those who are far from
Thee to approach the living fountain of Thy presence. I yield Thee such thanks as can divest the
bodies of Thy servants of the garments of mortality and abasement, and attire them in the robes
of Thine eternity and Thy glory, and lead the poor unto the shores of Thy holiness and all
sufﬁcient riches. I yield Thee such thanks as can enable the Heavenly Dove to warble forth, upon
the branches of the Lote-Tree of Immortality, her song: “Verily, Thou art God. No God is there
besides Thee. From eternity Thou hast been exalted above the praise of aught else but Thee, and
been high above the description of any one except Thyself.” I yield Thee such thanks as can cause
the Nightingale of Glory to pour forth its melody in the highest heaven: “‘Alí (the Báb), in truth, is
Thy servant, Whom Thou hast singled out from among Thy Messengers and Thy chosen Ones,
and made Him to be the Manifestation of Thyself in all that pertaineth unto Thee, and that
concerneth the revelation of Thine attributes and the evidences of Thy names.” I yield Thee such
thanks as can stir up all things to extol Thee, and to glorify Thine Essence, and can unloose the
tongues of all beings to magnify the sovereignty of Thy beauty. I yield Thee such thanks as can
ﬁll the heavens and the earth with the signs of Thy transcendent Essence, and assist all created
things to enter the Tabernacle of Thy nearness and Thy presence. I yield Thee such thanks as can
make every created thing to be a book that shall speak of Thee, and a scroll that shall unfold Thy
praise. I yield Thee such thanks as can stablish the Manifestations of Thy sovereignty upon the
throne of Thy governance, and set up the Exponents of Thy glory upon the seat of Thy Divinity. I
yield Thee such thanks as can make the corrupt tree to bring forth good fruit through the holy
breaths of Thy favours, and revive the bodies of all beings with the gentle winds of Thy
transcendent grace. I yield Thee such thanks as can cause the signs of Thine exalted singleness to
be sent down out of the heaven of Thy holy unity. I yield Thee such thanks as can teach all things
the realities of Thy knowledge and the essence of Thy wisdom, and will not withhold the
wretched creatures from the doors of Thy mercy and Thy bountiful favour. I yield Thee such
thanks as can enable all who are in heaven and on earth to dispense with all created things,
through the treasuries of Thine all-sufﬁcing riches, and can aid all created things to reach unto the
summit of Thine almighty favours. I yield Thee such thanks as can assist the hearts of Thine
ardent lovers to soar into the atmosphere of nearness to Thee, and of longing for Thee, and kindle
the Light of Lights within the land of ‘Iráq. I yield Thee such thanks as can detach them that are
nigh unto Thee from all created things, and draw them to the throne of Thy names and Thine
attributes. I yield Thee such thanks as can cause Thee to forgive all sins and trespasses, and to
fulﬁl the needs of the peoples of all religions, and to waft the fragrances of pardon over the entire8
9

creation. I yield Thee such thanks as can enable them that recognize Thy unity to scale the
heights of Thy love, and cause such as are devoted to Thee to ascend unto the Paradise of Thy
presence. I yield Thee such thanks as can satisfy the wants of all such as seek Thee, and realize
the aims of them that have recognized Thee. I yield Thee such thanks as can blot out from the
hearts of men all suggestions of limitations, and inscribe the signs of Thy unity. I yield Thee such
thanks as that with which Thou didst from eternity glorify Thine own Self, and didst exalt it
above all peers, rivals, and comparisons, O Thou in Whose hands are the heavens of grace and of
bounty, and the kingdoms of glory and of majesty!
Lauded be Thy name, O Lord my God, and my Master! Thou bearest witness, and seest, and
knowest the things that have befallen Thy loved ones in Thy days, and the continual trials, and
the successive tribulations, and the incessant afﬂictions, which have been sent down upon Thine
elect. Such hath been their plight that the earth became too strait for them, and they were
encompassed by the evidences of Thy wrath and the signs of Thy fear in every land, and the doors
of Thy mercy and Thy loving-kindness were shut against them, and the garden of their hearts was
deprived of the overﬂowing showers of Thy grace and Thy bountiful favours. Wilt Thou withhold,
O my God, from such as love Thee the wonders of Thine ascendancy and triumph? Wilt Thou
shatter, O my Beloved, the hopes which they who are devoted to Thee have ﬁxed on Thy manifold
bounties and gifts? Wilt Thou keep back, O my Master, those that have recognized Thee from the
shores of Thy sanctiﬁed knowledge, or wilt Thou cease to rain down upon the hearts of such as
desire Thee the showers of Thy transcendent grace? No, no, and to this Thy glory beareth me
witness! I testify this very moment that Thy mercy hath surpassed all created things, and Thy
loving-kindness encompassed all that are in heaven and all that are on earth. From everlasting the
doors of Thy generosity were open to the faces of Thy servants, and the gentle winds of Thy grace
were wafted over the hearts of Thy creatures, and the overﬂowing rains of Thy bounty were
showered upon Thy people and the dwellers of Thy realm.
I know full well Thou hast delayed to manifest Thy triumph in the kingdom of creation by
reason of Thy knowledge which embraceth both the mysteries of Thy decree, and the hidden
things ordained behind the veils of Thine irrevocable purpose, that thereby those who have
entered beneath the shadow of Thy transcendent mercy may be separated from those who have
dealt disdainfully with Thee, and turned back from Thy presence at the time when Thou didst
manifest Thy most exalted Beauty.
Exalted, immeasurably exalted art Thou, therefore, O my Beloved! Forasmuch as Thou hast
divided, in Thy realm, Thy loved ones from Thine enemies, and hast perfected Thy most weighty
testimony and Thy most infallible Proof unto all who are in heaven and on earth, have mercy,
then, upon those who were brought low in Thy land, by reason of what hath befallen them in Thy
path. Exalt them, then, O my God, through the power of Thy might and the potency of Thy will,
and raise them up to proclaim Thy Cause through Thine omnipotent sovereignty and purpose.
I swear by Thy glory! My sole purpose in showing forth Thine ascendancy hath been to
glorify Thy Cause, and to magnify Thy word. I am persuaded that if Thou wert to delay to send
down Thy victory and to demonstrate Thy power, the signs of Thy sovereignty would assuredly
perish in Thy land, and the tokens of Thy rule would be blotted out throughout Thy dominion.
My breast is straitened, O my God, and sorrows and vexations have compassed me round, for I
hear among Thy servants every praise except Thy wondrous praise, and behold amidst Thy people
the evidences of all things save the evidences of what Thou hast prescribed unto them by Thy
behest, and destined for them through Thy sovereign will, and ordained unto them by Thine
overruling decree. They have strayed so far from Thee that should any of Thy loved ones deliver
unto them the wondrous tokens of Thy unity, and the gem-like utterances that attest Thy
transcendent oneness, they would thrust their ﬁngers into their ears, and would cavil at him and
mock him. All this hast Thou set down through Thine all-encompassing sovereignty, and
apprehended through Thine omnipotent supremacy.
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, O my Master! Look, then, upon the hearts which,
in their love for Thee, have been transﬁxed by the darts of Thine enemies, and the heads which
were borne on spears for the sake of the exaltation of Thy Cause and the gloriﬁcation of Thy10
11
12
13
14
15

name. Have pity, then, upon those hearts which have been consumed by the ﬁre of Thy love, and
been touched by such tribulations as are known only unto Thee.
All laud and honour to Thee, O my God! Thou well knowest the things which, for a score of
years, have happened in Thy days, and have continued to happen until this hour. No man can
reckon, nor can any tongue tell, what hath befallen Thy chosen ones during all this time. They
could obtain no shelter, nor ﬁnd any refuge in which they could abide in safety. Turn, then, O my
God, their fear into the evidences of Thy peace and Thy security, and their abasement into the
sovereignty of Thy glory, and their poverty into Thine all-sufﬁcient riches, and their distress into
the wonders of Thy perfect tranquillity. Vouchsafe unto them the fragrances of Thy might and
Thy mercy, and send down upon them, out of Thy marvellous loving-kindness, what will enable
them to dispense with all except Thee, and will detach them from aught save Thyself, that the
sovereignty of Thy oneness may be revealed and the supremacy of Thy grace and Thy bounty
demonstrated.
Wilt Thou not, O my God, look upon the tears which Thy loved ones have shed? Wilt Thou
not pity, O my Beloved, the eyes which have been dimmed by reason of their separation from
Thee, and because of the cessation of the signs of Thy victory? Wilt Thou not behold, O my
Master, the hearts wherein have beaten the wings of the dove of longing and love for Thee? By
Thy glory! Things have come to such a pass that hope hath well nigh been banished from the
hearts of Thy chosen ones, and the breaths of despair are ready to seize them, by reason of what
hath befallen them in Thy days.
Behold me, then, O my God, how I have ﬂed from myself unto Thee, and have abandoned my
own being that I may attain unto the splendours of the light of Thy Being, and have forsaken all
that keepeth me back from Thee, and maketh me forgetful of Thee, in order that I may inhale the
fragrances of Thy presence and Thy remembrance. Behold how I have stepped upon the dust of
the city of Thy forgiveness and Thy bounty, and dwelt within the precincts of Thy transcendent
mercy, and have besought Thee, through the sovereignty of Him Who is Thy Remembrance and
Who hath appeared in the robe of Thy most pure and most august Beauty, to send down, in the
course of this year, upon Thy loved ones what will enable them to dispense with any one except
Thee, and will set them free to recognize the evidences of Thy sovereign will and all-conquering
purpose, in such wise that they will seek only what Thou didst wish for them through Thy
bidding, and will desire naught except what Thou didst desire for them through Thy will. Sanctify,
then, their eyes, O my God, that they may behold the light of Thy Beauty, and purge their ears,
that they may listen to the melodies of the Dove of Thy transcendent oneness. Flood, then, their
hearts with the wonders of Thy love, and preserve their tongues from mentioning any one save
Thee, and guard their faces from turning to aught else except Thyself. Potent art Thou to do what
pleaseth Thee. Thou, verily, art the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
Protect, moreover, O my Beloved, through Thy love for them and through the love they bear
to Thee, this servant, who hath sacriﬁced his all for Thee, and expended whatsoever Thou hast
given him in the path of Thy love and Thy good-pleasure, and preserve him from all that Thou
abhorrest, and from whatsoever may hinder him from entering into the Tabernacle of Thy holy
sovereignty, and from attaining the seat of Thy transcendent oneness. Number him, then, O my
God, with such as have allowed nothing whatever to deter them from beholding Thy beauty, or
from meditating on the wondrous evidences of Thine everlasting handiwork, that he may have
fellowship with none except Thee, and turn to naught save Thyself, and discover in whatever hath
been created by Thee in the kingdoms of earth and heaven nothing but Thy wondrous Beauty and
the revelation of the splendours of Thy face, and be so immersed beneath the billowing oceans of
Thine overruling providence and the surging seas of Thy holy unity, that he will forget every
mention except the mention of Thy transcendent oneness, and banish from his soul the traces of
all evil suggestions, O Thou in Whose hands are the kingdoms of all names and attributes!
Lauded be Thy name, O Thou Who art the Goal of my desire! I swear by Thy glory! How
great is my wish to attain unto a detachment so complete that were there to appear before me
those countenances which are hid within the chambers of chastity, and the beauty of which Thou
didst veil from the eyes of the entire creation, and whose faces Thou didst sanctify from the sight16
17
18
19
20

of all beings, and were they to unveil themselves in all the glory of the splendours of Thine
incomparable beauty, I would refuse to look upon them, and would behold them solely for the
purpose of discerning the mysteries of Thy handiwork, which have perplexed the minds of such as
have drawn nigh unto Thee, and awed the souls of all them that have recognized Thee. I would, by
Thy power and Thy might, soar to such heights that nothing whatsoever would have the power to
keep me back from the manifold evidences of Thy transcendent dominion, nor would any earthly
scheme shut me out from the manifestations of Thy Divine holiness.
Gloriﬁed, immeasurably gloriﬁed art Thou, O my God, and my Beloved, and my Master, and
my Desire! Shatter not the hopes of this lowly one to attain the shores of Thy glory, and deprive
not this wretched creature of the immensities of Thy riches, and cast not away this suppliant
from the doors of Thy grace, and Thy bounty, and Thy gifts. Have mercy, then, upon this poor and
desolate soul who hath sought no friend but Thee, and no companion except Thee, and no
comforter save Thee, and no beloved apart from Thee, nor cherished any desire but Thyself.
Cast, then, upon me, O my God, the glances of Thy mercy, and forgive me my trespasses and
the trespasses of them that are dear to Thee, and which come in between us and the revelation of
Thy triumph and Thy grace. Cancel Thou, moreover, our sins which have shut off our faces from
the splendours of the Day-Star of Thy favours. Powerful art Thou to do Thy pleasure. Thou
ordainest what Thou willest, and art not asked of what Thou wishest through the power of Thy
sovereignty, nor canst Thou be frustrated in whatsoever Thou prescribest through Thine
irrevocable decree. No God is there save Thee, the Almighty, the Most Powerful, the Ever-Living,
the Most Compassionate.
23
SÚRIY-I-QALAM
(SÚRIH OF THE PEN)
This is the Súrih of the Pen, which hath been sent down from the heaven of eternity unto them
that have ﬁxed their gaze upon His Throne.
In the name of God, the Most Wondrous, the Most Glorious!
O Pen of the Most High! Bear thou witness, in thine own self, that verily He is God and that there
is none other God but Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Bear thou witness, then, by thine
own essence, that verily I am God and that there is none other God but Him, that all have been
created at My behest and that all abide by My command. Bear thou witness, moreover, by thine
inmost being, that this is the Beauty of God which hath dawned above the horizon of the Unseen,
a Beauty that hath ever been, and shall ever remain, unknown to all save Himself. He, verily, is
the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Through but one of His effulgences the Day-
Stars of majesty and grandeur have shone forth, the hearts of the denizens of the everlasting
realm and the sanctiﬁed realities that lay hid beneath the mystic veil have been called into being,
and the secrets of all that was and shall be have been laid bare.
O Pen! Let nothing dismay thee, for unto thee have We vouchsafed the inviolable protection
of Our sovereign might and power, and into thee have We breathed a spirit, one breath of which
would, if wafted upon the bodies of all existence, cause them to arise from their couches, unloose
their tongues, speak forth, and bear witness in their inmost being that there is none other God but
Me, the Powerful, the Glorious, the Exalted, the Mighty, the Peerless, the All-Subduing, the Self-
Subsisting.
O Pen of Command! Be assured in thyself, and reveal then unto all beings a measure of that
which God bestowed upon thee ere the creation of words and letters and the fashioning of all
things, and ere the establishment of the kingdom of names and attributes and the revelation of
His mighty and guarded Tablet. Say: This is a Power unsurpassed from all eternity to all eternity,
could ye but know it, O concourse of the Spirit, and this is a Beauty unrivalled from the beginning
that hath no beginning, could ye but perceive it. Say: Whoso conceiveth the least design to
confront this Pen, to presume partnership with it, to gain intimate access unto it, or to fully grasp21
22
1
2
3

that which emanateth from it, be assured that the Evil One doth whisper within his breast. Thus
hath the Divine Command been issued, could ye but understand. Say: By God! None hath ever
been, nor shall ever be, able to rival Me amidst all creation. Thus hath it been inscribed by the Pen
of divine revelation, could ye but comprehend it. Say: A single letter of Mine utterance hath, verily,
brought forth the entire universe, the realities of all things, and worlds which none can fathom
save God, the Almighty, the Most Manifest.
O Pen! Give ear unto that which the unbelievers have imputed to thee. Say: O assemblage of
malice! Perish in your hatred, in your envy and your unbelief! By Him Who is the Eternal Truth!
This is that Pen through a mere intimation of whose will the souls of the Concourse on high, and
the realities of the denizens of the everlasting realm, and the essences of human hearts and
minds, were all fashioned. This is that Pen through but a movement of which the sun of might
and grandeur, and the moon of loftiness and sanctity, and the stars of grace and favour, were called
into existence. This is that Pen through which were created the all-highest Paradise and all that
abide therein, and the celestial garden and all that pertaineth thereto, could ye but comprehend.
Say: Through but a single stroke have been manifested the knowledge of all that was and shall be,
and the creation of all things past and future. Open then your eyes that ye may bear witness to
this truth.
O Pen! Content thyself with that which thou hast so far intimated to the world of thy
sovereignty and power, for the hearts of the envious are well-nigh bursting. Veil, then, thy Cause,
and reveal no more than this, for thy words would rend asunder the heavens of ancient glory, and
cleave in twain the earth of holiness itself, and cause the inmates of the realm of grandeur to
swoon away. Be patient in thy heart, for the people of the world are incapable of beholding thy
sovereignty or perceiving thy manifold signs, how much less of recognizing Him Who hath created
and fashioned thee through but a single word of His utterance! Exalted is thy Lord above all that
thou hast revealed in the past or wilt manifest in the future. Exalted is He above all that His
sincere and well-favoured servants have comprehended or will ever comprehend. Content thyself,
then, with that which thou hast thus far revealed. I swear by the One True God! Should all that
are in the heavens and on earth and whatsoever lieth between them—whether trees, fruits, leaves,
twigs, branches, rivers, oceans, or mountains—encounter a single word of thy pronouncement, they
would assuredly speak forth that which the Burning Bush, springing from the soil of divine
revelation, spoke unto Moses in that holy and blessed Vale.
O Pen! Give ear unto the wondrous account of that which God hath graciously bestowed upon
thee. Detach thyself, then, from all thou dost possess, and announce unto the people the joyful
tidings of the appearance of the Most Exalted Word in this mighty Revelation, that haply they
may recognize their Creator and renounce all else but Him. Call then upon the Concourse on high
to rejoice, saying: O ye exponents of grandeur sheltered beneath the tabernacle of majesty! O ye
denizens of the dominion of power abiding beneath the canopy of glory! O ye dwellers of the
kingdom of the seen and the unseen situate in the furthermost precincts beyond the ocean of
eternity! O ye manifestations of the divine names in the highest heaven! Let your hearts rejoice
in this Most Great Festival wherein God Himself proffereth this most pure chalice unto such as
stand before Him with beseeming lowliness and humility. Adorn, then, your souls with the silken
vesture of certitude and your bodies with the broidered robe of the All-Merciful, for lo, a light hath
dawned forth and shone resplendent from the horizon of My brow, before whose revelation all that
are in the heavens and on earth have bowed down in adoration, could ye but perceive it.
Say: I swear by the one true God that there hath never appeared in all creation another like
unto Him. Whoso asserteth otherwise hath gainsaid the testimony of God and is accounted among
the faithless in His mighty and well-guarded Tablet. Say: This is the Light through which the
inhabitants of the celestial world and their inner realities have been brought forth, and through
which the embodiments of the heavenly realm and their inmost essences have been raised up.
This is the Light through which God hath created worlds that have neither beginning nor end,
worlds whereof none hath the slightest intimation save those whom their Lord hath willed. Thus
do We disclose unto you the hidden mysteries, that haply ye may ponder the signs of God. Say:
This, verily, is the Light before whose effulgence every head hath bowed down in lowliness, and4
5
6
7

before whose manifestation the hearts of the well-favoured of God, and the souls of His holy ones,
and the inmost realities of His true worshippers, and beyond them His honoured servants, have
prostrated themselves in adoration.
O inmates of the holy sanctuary! I swear by God! He in very truth is the Sanctuary of God
amongst you and His sacred Precinct in your midst, the holy Site of the Spirit before your eyes
and the Station of both inner and outer peace and security. Take heed lest ye deprive yourselves of
the Sanctuary of His knowledge. Hasten unto Him and tarry not. This is that Sanctuary round
which circle the Manifestations of the Divine Being and the Embodiments of His eternal Reality,
and whose court God hath hallowed beyond the reach of the outcast and the ungodly. This, verily,
is that Sanctuary the blessing of whose service is sought by the Maids of Heaven, and them that
dwell in the depths of the Most Great Ocean, and them that abide in the habitation of holiness and
the realm of reunion—and yet the people, for the most part, comprehend not.
O denizens of earth and heaven! Abandon your couches and undertake the Most Great
Pilgrimage for the sake of this pure and refulgent Beauty. Should God witness your inability to do
so, He will exempt you therefrom and command you instead to approach Him with heart and soul.
And they alone shall attain this who behold all that is in the heavens and on the earth as a day
wherein none was deemed worthy of mention.9 These are they to whom their Lord will give to
drink, from His own hands, of the sealed wine of holiness. Verily, whoso turneth his face towards
this most blessed and luminous Spot, round him shall circle resplendent suns whose effulgence
knoweth neither beginning nor end, and above the horizon of his heart there shall dawn that Sun
of suns before Whose light the orbs of worldly names are wrapped in darkness, if ye be of them
that understand.
O Pen! Proclaim unto the concourse of eternity, saying: O ye that rove in the arenas of
immortality! O ye that abide beneath the tabernacle of grandeur! O ye gem-like realities that lie
hid from the eyes of creation! Descend from your lofty retreats to celebrate and rejoice, and to
quaff from the cup of everlasting life that the hand of the All-Glorious is proffering on this Day.
This, in truth, is a Day the like of which hath never been witnessed in all creation, a Day whereon
the Eye of Grandeur hath been cheered in the Seat of transcendent glory. O ye bearers of the
throne of God! Adorn the most great throne on this Day, for the unseen Beauty hath appeared—
He Whose presence the inmates of the all-highest Paradise and the dwellers of the garden of
repose have thus far been powerless to attain. Say: By God! The Hidden Secret hath appeared in
the plenitude of His glory and hath solaced by His beauty the eyes of all things seen and unseen,
and beyond them the eyes of them that have cleansed their souls with the holy waters streaming
from the ocean of the Name of their Lord, the Most Manifest.
Say: This is a Day whereon God hath made His own Self known and revealed it unto all who
are in the heavens and on earth, a day whereon He hath established His sovereign ascendancy
over the kingdoms of revelation and creation. How exalted, then, is this holy, this most blessed and
best-beloved grace! This is a Day, moreover, whereon the Ancient Beauty hath appeared with such
an adorning as to cause the veils to be rent asunder, and the mysteries to be revealed, and the
fruits to spring forth, and all things to utter the praise of their Lord, the Unconstrained—a Day
whereon the earth and all that it holdeth, and the heavens and all that they contain, and the
mountains and all that they conceal, and the oceans and all that they treasure in their depths,
have laid bare their secrets, though the people remain veiled therefrom. This is a day whereon the
idols of misbelief and worldly desire have been shattered and the Ancient Beauty hath ascended
His mighty throne. The Spirit of glory hath called out from the precincts of eternity, and the Most
Holy Spirit from the Divine Lote-Tree, and the Spirit of command from the Tree beyond which
there is no passing, and the Spirit of might from the exalted dominion, and the faithful Spirit from
the right hand of the Burning Bush, saying: “Hallowed be the Lord of mercy, Who hath appeared
in the world of existence invested with that which mortal eyes had never beheld!” Say: He it is
Who through a movement of His ﬁnger causeth the creatures of earth and heaven to perish, Who
through a word of His mouth bringeth them to life again, and Who through a mere intimation of
His glance turneth all creation unto the presence of God, the Help in Peril, the Almighty, the Best-
Beloved.8
9
10
11

Say: O concourse of monks! Abandon the churches wherein ye have gloriﬁed your Lord, for He
Who ascended unto heaven hath in very truth come down again and circleth round the Throne of
God. I swear by the one true God! In this Day the bells are pealing out in My remembrance, the
Trumpet soundeth My praise, and the Bugle proclaimeth My Name, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting. Deprive not yourselves of the grace of this day; hasten rather to the seat of the Throne,
forsake that which ye possess, and take fast hold of the Cord of God, Who hath arisen and
manifested Himself and spoken forth for all to hear.
O inhabitants of the realms of the seen and the unseen! Sing, O sing the most joyous
melodies on this Festival of God which hath appeared with the power of truth and to which the
former and latter generations had never attained, could ye but know it. This is the Day whereon
the Pen of God hath absolved all who are in the heavens and on earth. Thus hath His eternal
command shone forth from the dayspring of His Pen, that ye may rejoice in your souls and be of
those whose hearts are gladdened.
O Pen! Announce unto the Maid of Paradise:10 “By God! This day is thy day. Come forth as
thou willest, and array thyself as thou pleasest with the broidered robe of names and the silken
vesture of immortality. Emerge then from thine eternal habitation even as the sun that dawneth
from the countenance of Bahá. Descend from thy lofty heights and, standing betwixt earth and
heaven, lift the veil of concealment from thy luminous face and shine forth above the horizon of
creation as the black-eyed Damsel, that haply the most great veil may be torn away from the eyes
of these people and they may behold the Scene of transcendent glory, the Beauty of God, the Most
Holy, the Most Powerful, the Best-Beloved.”
“O Ancient Beauty! The unbelievers, verily, are lost in the stupor of idle fancy and are
powerless to turn their eyes towards the most hallowed Court. Through the sovereign potency of
Thine inviolable protection, Thou hast shielded me beneath the veils of light and guarded my
beauty from the gaze of Thine enemies. Thine is the power to command; Thou ordainest as Thou
pleasest through Thy word ‘Be’, and it is.”
“O Maid of Bahá! Step forth from the court of eternity, but let not thy most pure gaze linger
upon the faces of mortal men. I swear by the one true God! None save them that are possessed of
true insight can ever hope to behold thee in this most sublime vision. Leave the kingdom of names
on thy right and the dominion of attributes on thy left, and shine forth by My leave above the
horizon of Mine inviolable protection, divested of all that hath been created in the realm of
Revelation and shorn of all that hath appeared in the kingdom of creation, that thou mayest
manifest the beauteous image of God in all regions. Intone, then, the sweetest of melodies betwixt
earth and heaven, that all existence may be detached from aught save the face of thy Lord, the
Most Holy, the Most Gracious, the Well-Beloved. Beam forth above the horizon of the Riḍván with
the beauty of the All-Merciful, and let thy fragrant locks ﬂow upon thy bosom, that the perfume
of the garment of thy most gracious Lord may be diffused throughout the world. Hide not thy
luminous form from the eyes of the concourse of Revelation, and withhold not thine ethereal veil
of holiness from the gaze of the people. Present thyself, then, before the Throne with thy locks
ﬂowing, thine arms bejewelled, thy countenance blushing, thy cheeks aglow, and thine eyes
adorned, and take hold of the snow-white chalice in My most exalted Name. Proffer then to the
denizens of the realm of eternity the crimson wine of Mine all-glorious Beauty, that haply the
concourse of Revelation may sanctify their souls in this most august Festival by virtue of this pure
draught, and that they may emerge from behind the veil of concealment through the power of
Mine almighty and all-powerful, Mine all-subduing and self-subsisting sovereignty.”
“By God! I am the Maid of Heaven, abiding in the midmost heart of Paradise, hidden behind
the veil of the All-Merciful and concealed from the eyes of men. From time immemorial I
remained shrouded in the veil of sanctity beneath the Tabernacle of Grandeur. I heard a most
sweet call from the right hand of the throne of my Lord, the Most Exalted, and I saw Paradise
itself set in motion and all its inhabitants stirred up in their longing to attain the presence of God,
the All-Glorious. Whereupon another call was raised: ‘By God! The Beloved of the worlds is come!
Blessed be the one who attaineth His presence, and beholdeth His face, and giveth ear to His most
holy, His most glorious and beloved utterance. The Voice of God hath enraptured the souls of the12
13
14
15
16
17