* * *
* * *The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
The Most Holy Book
Bahá’u’lláh
Preface
Introduction
A Description of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas by Shoghi Effendi
The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Some Supplementary Texts
Questions and Answers
A Synopsis and Codiﬁcation of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
Notes
Key to Passages from the Aqdas translated by Shoghi Effendi
Preface
In 1953 Shoghi Effendi, the Guardian of the Bahá’í Faith, included as one of the goals of his Ten
Year Plan the preparation of a Synopsis and Codiﬁcation of the Laws and Ordinances of the Kitáb-
i-Aqdas as an essential prelude to its translation. He himself worked on the codiﬁcation, but had
not ﬁnished it when he died in 1957. The task was continued on the basis of his work, and the
resulting volume was released in 1973. That publication included, in addition to the Synopsis and
Codiﬁcation itself and explanatory notes, a compilation of the passages from the Kitáb-i-Aqdas
which had already been translated by Shoghi Effendi and published in various books. The Synopsis
and Codiﬁcation covered the text of both the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the Questions and Answers which
constitutes an appendix to the Aqdas. In 1986 the Universal House of Justice decided that the time
had come when the preparation of an English translation of the complete text of the Most Holy
Book was both possible and essential and made its accomplishment a goal of the Six Year Plan
1986–1992. Its publication in English will be followed by translations in other languages.
It has been recognized that the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, being Sacred Scripture, should be presented in a
form which can be read with ease and inspiration, uncluttered with the footnotes and index
numbers that are common in scholarly texts. Nonetheless, to assist the reader in following the
ﬂow of the text and its changing themes, paragraph divisions have been added—such divisions not
being common in works of Arabic literature—and these paragraphs have then been numbered for
ease of access and indexing, as well as for uniformity of reference in all the languages in which
the work will be published.
Following the text of the Aqdas is a brief compilation of Writings of Bahá’u’lláh which are
supplementary to the Most Holy Book, and a translation of the Questions and Answers published
here for the ﬁrst time.
Shoghi Effendi had stated that the English translation of the Aqdas should be “copiously
annotated.” The policy followed in preparing the notes has been to concentrate on those points
which might strike a non-Arabic-speaking reader as obscure or which, for various reasons, require
elucidation or background information. They are not intended to be a comprehensive commentary
on the text beyond these fundamental requirements.

The notes, which are placed following the Synopsis and Codiﬁcation, are numbered
sequentially. Each is preceded by a quotation of the passage to which it relates, and indicates the
number of the paragraph in which this appears. This facilitates cross-reference between the text
and the notes, while making it possible for readers to study the notes without repeatedly
consulting the text, if they so prefer. It is hoped in this way to meet the needs of readers of a wide
range of backgrounds and interests.
The index provides a guide to subjects in all sections of the volume.
The signiﬁcance and character of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and the range of subjects it contains have
been graphically depicted by Shoghi Effendi in his history of the ﬁrst Bahá’í century entitled God
Passes By. As an assistance to the reader, these passages are provided in the section that
immediately follows the introduction. The Synopsis and Codiﬁcation, which is republished in this
volume, serves as another aid for obtaining an overview of the Book.

Introduction
This year, the 149th of the Bahá’í era, marks the Centenary of the Ascension of Bahá’u’lláh,
Bearer of the universal Revelation of God destined to lead humanity to its collective coming of
age. That this occasion should be observed by a community of believers representing a cross-
section of the entire human race and established, in the course of a century and a half, in the most
remote corners of the globe, is a token of the forces of unity released by Bahá’u’lláh’s advent. A
further testimony to the operation of these same forces can be seen in the extent to which
Bahá’u’lláh’s vision has preﬁgured contemporary human experience in so many of its aspects. It is
a propitious moment for the publication of this ﬁrst authorized translation into English of the
Mother Book of His Revelation, His “Most Holy Book,” the Book in which He sets forth the Laws
of God for a Dispensation destined to endure for no less than a thousand years.
Of the more than one hundred volumes comprising the sacred Writings of Bahá’u’lláh, the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas is of unique importance. “To build anew the whole world” is the claim and challenge of
His Message, and the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is the Charter of the future world civilization that Bahá’u’lláh
has come to raise up. Its provisions rest squarely on the foundation established by past religions,
for, in the words of Bahá’u’lláh, “This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the
future.” In this Revelation the concepts of the past are brought to a new level of understanding,
and the social laws, changed to suit the age now dawning, are designed to carry humanity forward
into a world civilization the splendors of which can as yet be scarcely imagined.
In its afﬁrmation of the validity of the great religions of the past, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas reiterates
those eternal truths enunciated by all the Divine Messengers: the unity of God, love of one’s
neighbor, and the moral purpose of earthly life. At the same time it removes those elements of
past religious codes that now constitute obstacles to the emerging uniﬁcation of the world and the
reconstruction of human society.
The Law of God for this Dispensation addresses the needs of the entire human family. There
are laws in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas which are directed primarily to the members of a speciﬁc section of
humanity and can be immediately understood by them but which, at ﬁrst reading, may be obscure
to people of a different culture. Such, for example, is the law prohibiting the confession of sins to
a fellow human being which, though understandable by those of Christian background, may puzzle
others. Many laws relate to those of past Dispensations, especially the two most recent ones,
those of Muḥammad and the Báb embodied in the Qur’án and the Bayán. Nevertheless, although
certain ordinances of the Aqdas have such a focused reference, they also have universal
implications. Through His Law, Bahá’u’lláh gradually unveils the signiﬁcance of the new levels of
knowledge and behavior to which the peoples of the world are being called. He embeds His
precepts in a setting of spiritual commentary, keeping ever before the mind of the reader the
principle that these laws, no matter the subject with which they deal, serve the manifold purposes
of bringing tranquillity to human society, raising the standard of human behavior, increasing the
range of human understanding, and spiritualizing the life of each and all. Throughout, it is the
relationship of the individual soul to God and the fulﬁllment of its spiritual destiny that is the
ultimate aim of the laws of religion. “Think not,” is Bahá’u’lláh’s own assertion, “that We have
revealed unto you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have unsealed the choice Wine with the ﬁngers of
might and power.” His Book of Laws is His “weightiest testimony unto all people, and the proof of the
All-Merciful unto all who are in heaven and all who are on earth.”
An introduction to the spiritual universe unveiled in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas would fail in its
purpose if it did not acquaint the reader with the interpretive and legislative institutions that
Bahá’u’lláh has indissolubly linked with the system of law thus revealed. At the foundation of
this guidance lies the unique role which Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings—indeed the text of the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas itself—confer on His eldest son, ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá. This unique ﬁgure is at once the Exemplar of
the pattern of life taught by His Father, the divinely inspired authoritative Interpreter of His
Teachings and the Center and Pivot of the Covenant which the Author of the Bahá’í Revelation
made with all who recognize Him. The twenty-nine years of ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá’s ministry endowed the

Bahá’í world with a luminous body of commentary that opens multiple vistas of understanding on
His Father’s purpose.
In His Will and Testament ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá conferred the mantle of Guardian of the Cause and
infallible Interpreter of its teachings upon His eldest grandson, Shoghi Effendi, and conﬁrmed the
authority and guarantee of divine guidance decreed by Bahá’u’lláh for the Universal House of
Justice on all matters “which have not outwardly been revealed in the Book.” The Guardianship and
the Universal House of Justice can thus be seen to be, in the words of Shoghi Effendi, the “Twin
Successors” of Bahá’u’lláh and ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá. They are the supreme institutions of the
Administrative Order which was founded and anticipated in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and elaborated by
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá in His Will.
During the thirty-six years of his ministry, Shoghi Effendi raised up the structure of elected
Spiritual Assemblies—the Houses of Justice referred to in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, now in their
embryonic stage—and with their collaboration initiated the systematic implementation of the
Divine Plan that ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá had laid out for the diffusion of the Faith throughout the world. He
also set in motion, on the basis of the strong administrative structure that had been established,
the processes which were an essential preparation for the election of the Universal House of
Justice. This body, which came into existence in April 1963, is elected through secret ballot and
plurality vote in a three-stage election by adult Bahá’ís throughout the world. The revealed Word
of Bahá’u’lláh, together with the interpretations and expositions of the Center of the Covenant
and the Guardian of the Cause, constitute the binding terms of reference of the Universal House
of Justice and are its bedrock foundation.
As to the laws themselves, a careful scrutiny discloses that they govern three areas: the
individual’s relationship to God, physical and spiritual matters which beneﬁt the individual
directly, and relations among individuals and between the individual and society. They can be
grouped under the following headings: prayer and fasting; laws of personal status governing
marriage, divorce and inheritance; a range of other laws, ordinances and prohibitions, as well as
exhortations; and the abrogation of speciﬁc laws and ordinances of previous Dispensations. A
salient characteristic is their brevity. They constitute the kernel of a vast range of law that will
arise in centuries to come. This elaboration of the law will be enacted by the Universal House of
Justice under the authority conferred upon it by Bahá’u’lláh Himself. In one of His Tablets
‘Abdu’l‑Bahá elucidates this principle:
Those matters of major importance which constitute the foundation of the Law of God are
explicitly recorded in the Text, but subsidiary laws are left to the House of Justice. The wisdom of
this is that the times never remain the same, for change is a necessary quality and an essential
attribute of this world, and of time and place. Therefore the House of Justice will take action
accordingly…
Brieﬂy, this is the wisdom of referring the laws of society to the House of Justice. In the religion
of Islám, similarly, not every ordinance was explicitly revealed; nay not a tenth part of a tenth part
was included in the Text; although all matters of major importance were speciﬁcally referred to, there
were undoubtedly thousands of laws which were unspeciﬁed. These were devised by the divines of a
later age according to the laws of Islamic jurisprudence, and individual divines made conﬂicting
deductions from the original revealed ordinances. All these were enforced. Today this process of
deduction is the right of the body of the House of Justice, and the deductions and conclusions of
individual learned men have no authority, unless they are endorsed by the House of Justice. The
difference is precisely this, that from the conclusions and endorsements of the body of the House of
Justice whose members are elected by and known to the worldwide Bahá’í community, no differences
will arise; whereas the conclusions of individual divines and scholars would deﬁnitely lead to
differences, and result in schism, division, and dispersion. The oneness of the Word would be
destroyed, the unity of the Faith would disappear, and the ediﬁce of the Faith of God would be
shaken.
Although the Universal House of Justice is explicitly authorized to change or repeal its own
legislation as conditions change, thus providing Bahá’í law with an essential element of ﬂexibility,

it cannot abrogate or change any of the laws which are explicitly laid down in the sacred Text.
The society for which certain of the laws of the Aqdas are designed will come only gradually
into being, and Bahá’u’lláh has provided for the progressive application of Bahá’í law:
Indeed, the laws of God are like unto the ocean and the children of men as ﬁsh, did they but
know it. However, in observing them one must exercise tact and wisdom… Since most people are
feeble and far-removed from the purpose of God, therefore one must observe tact and prudence under
all conditions, so that nothing might happen that could cause disturbance and dissension or raise
clamor among the heedless. Verily, His bounty hath surpassed the whole universe and His bestowals
encompassed all that dwell on earth. One must guide mankind to the ocean of true understanding in
a spirit of love and tolerance. The Kitáb-i-Aqdas itself beareth eloquent testimony to the loving
providence of God.
The principle governing this progressive application was enunciated in a letter written on
behalf of Shoghi Effendi to a National Spiritual Assembly in 1935:
… the laws revealed by Bahá’u’lláh in the Aqdas are, whenever practicable and not in direct
conﬂict with the Civil Law of the land, absolutely binding on every believer or Bahá’í
institution whether in the East or in the West. Certain laws … should be regarded by all
believers as universally and vitally applicable at the present time. Others have been
formulated in anticipation of a state of society destined to emerge from the chaotic conditions
that prevail today… What has not been formulated in the Aqdas, in addition to matters of
detail and of secondary importance arising out of the application of the laws already
formulated by Bahá’u’lláh, will have to be enacted by the Universal House of Justice. This
body can supplement but never invalidate or modify in the least degree what has already
been formulated by Bahá’u’lláh. Nor has the Guardian any right whatsoever to lessen the
binding effect much less to abrogate the provisions of so fundamental and sacred a Book.
The number of laws binding on Bahá’ís is not increased by the publication of this translation.
When it is deemed timely, the Bahá’í community will be advised which additional laws are
binding upon believers, and any guidance or supplementary legislation necessary for their
application will be provided.
In general, the laws of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas are stated succinctly. An example of this conciseness
can be seen in the fact that many are expressed only as they apply to a man, but it is apparent
from the Guardian’s writings that, where Bahá’u’lláh has given a law as between a man and a
woman, it applies mutatis mutandis between a woman and a man unless the context makes this
impossible. For example, the text of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas forbids a man to marry his father’s wife (i.e.
his stepmother), and the Guardian has indicated that likewise a woman is forbidden to marry her
stepfather. This understanding of the implications of the Law has far-reaching effects in light of
the fundamental Bahá’í principle of the equality of the sexes, and should be borne in mind when
the sacred Text is studied. That men and women differ from one another in certain characteristics
and functions is an inescapable fact of nature and makes possible their complementary roles in
certain areas of the life of society; but it is signiﬁcant that ‘Abdu’l‑Bahá has stated that in this
Dispensation “Equality of men and women, except in some negligible instances, has been fully and
categorically announced.”
Mention has already been made of the intimate relationship between the Kitáb-i-Aqdas and
the Holy Books of previous Dispensations. Especially close is the relationship to the Bayán, the
Book of Laws revealed by the Báb. It is elucidated in the following excerpts from letters written on
behalf of the Guardian:
Shoghi Effendi feels that the unity of the Bahá’í Revelation as one complete whole
embracing the Faith of the Báb should be emphasized… The Faith of the Báb should not be
divorced from that of Bahá’u’lláh. Though the teachings of the Bayán have been abrogated
and superseded by the laws of the Aqdas, yet due to the fact that the Báb considered Himself

as the Forerunner of Bahá’u’lláh, we would regard His Dispensation together with that of
Bahá’u’lláh as forming one entity, the former being introductory to the advent of the latter.
The Báb states that His laws are provisional and depend upon the acceptance of the
future Manifestation. This is why in the Book of Aqdas Bahá’u’lláh sanctions some of the
laws found in the Bayán, modiﬁes others and sets aside many.
Just as the Bayán had been revealed by the Báb at about the midpoint of His Ministry,
Bahá’u’lláh revealed the Kitáb-i-Aqdas around 1873, some twenty years after He had received, in
the Síyáh-Chál of Ṭihrán, the intimation of His Revelation. In one of His Tablets He indicates that
even after its revelation the Aqdas was withheld by Him for some time before it was sent to the
friends in Iran. Thereafter, as Shoghi Effendi has related:
The formulation by Bahá’u’lláh, in His Kitáb-i-Aqdas, of the fundamental laws of His
Dispensation was followed, as His Mission drew to a close, by the enunciation of certain
precepts and principles which lie at the very core of His Faith, by the reafﬁrmation of truths
He had previously proclaimed, by the elaboration and elucidation of some of the laws He had
already laid down, by the revelation of further prophecies and warnings, and by the
establishment of subsidiary ordinances designed to supplement the provisions of His Most
Holy Book. These were recorded in unnumbered Tablets, which He continued to reveal until
the last days of His earthly life…
Among such works is the Questions and Answers, a compilation made by Zaynu’l-
Muqarrabín, the most eminent of the transcribers of Bahá’u’lláh’s Writings. Consisting of answers
revealed by Bahá’u’lláh to questions put to Him by various believers, it constitutes an invaluable
appendix to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. In 1978 the most noteworthy of the other Tablets of this nature
were published in English as a compilation entitled Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-
Aqdas.
Some years after the revelation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, Bahá’u’lláh had manuscript copies sent
to Bahá’ís in Iran, and in the year 1308 A.H. (1890–91 A.D.), towards the end of His life, He
arranged for the publication of the original Arabic text of the Book in Bombay.
A word should be said about the style of language in which the Kitáb-i-Aqdas has been
rendered into English. Bahá’u’lláh enjoyed a superb mastery of Arabic, and preferred to use it in
those Tablets and other Writings where its precision of meaning was particularly appropriate to
the exposition of basic principle. Beyond the choice of language itself, however, the style
employed is of an exalted and emotive character, immensely compelling, particularly to those
familiar with the great literary tradition out of which it arose. In taking up his task of translation,
Shoghi Effendi faced the challenge of ﬁnding an English style which would not only faithfully
convey the exactness of the text’s meaning, but would also evoke in the reader the spirit of
meditative reverence which is a distinguishing feature of response to the original. The form of
expression he selected, reminiscent of the style used by the seventeenth-century translators of
the Bible, captures the elevated mode of Bahá’u’lláh’s Arabic, while remaining accessible to the
contemporary reader. His translations, moreover, are illumined by his uniquely inspired
understanding of the purport and implications of the originals.
Although both Arabic and English are languages with rich vocabularies and varied modes of
expression, their forms differ widely from one another. The Arabic of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas is marked
by intense concentration and terseness of expression. It is a characteristic of this style that if a
connotation is obvious it should not be explicitly stated. This presents a problem for a reader
whose cultural, religious and literary background is entirely different from that of Arabic. A literal
translation of a passage which is clear in the Arabic could be obscure in English. It therefore
becomes necessary to include in the English translation of such passages that element of the
Arabic sentence which is obviously implicit in the original. At the same time, it is vital to avoid
extrapolating this process to the point where it would add unjustiﬁably to the original or limit its
meaning. Striking the right balance between beauty and clarity of expression on the one hand, and
literalness on the other, is one of the major issues with which the translators have had to grapple

and which has caused repeated reconsideration of the rendering of certain passages. Another
major issue is the legal implication of certain Arabic terms which have a range of meanings
different from those of similar terms in English.
Sacred Scripture clearly requires especial care and faithfulness in translation. This is
supremely important in the case of a Book of Laws, where it is vital that the reader not be misled
or drawn into fruitless disputation. As had been foreseen, the translation of the Most Holy Book
has been a work of the utmost difﬁculty, requiring consultation with experts in many lands. Since
some one-third of the text had already been translated by Shoghi Effendi, it was necessary to
strive for three qualities in the translation of the remaining passages: accuracy of meaning, beauty
of English, and conformity of style with that used by Shoghi Effendi.
We are now satisﬁed that the translation has reached a point where it represents an
acceptable rendering of the original. Nevertheless, it will undoubtedly give rise to questions and
suggestions which may shed further light on its content. We are profoundly grateful for the
assiduous and meticulous labors of the members of the Committees whom we commissioned to
prepare and review this translation of the Aqdas and to compose the annotations. We are
conﬁdent that this ﬁrst authorized English edition of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas will enable its readers to
obtain at least an inkling of the splendor of the Mother Book of the Bahá’í Dispensation.
Our world has entered the dark heart of an age of fundamental change beyond anything in all
of its tumultuous history. Its peoples, of whatever race, nation, or religion, are being challenged to
subordinate all lesser loyalties and limiting identities to their oneness as citizens of a single
planetary homeland. In Bahá’u’lláh’s words: “The well-being of mankind, its peace and security, are
unattainable unless and until its unity is ﬁrmly established.” May the publication of this translation of
the Kitáb-i-Aqdas lend a fresh impulse to the realization of this universal vision, opening vistas of
a worldwide regeneration.
The Universal House of Justice

A Description of the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas by
Shoghi Effendi
Taken from God Passes By,
his history of the ﬁrst Bahá’í century
Unique and stupendous as was this Proclamation, it proved to be but a prelude to a still mightier
revelation of the creative power of its Author, and to what may well rank as the most signal act of
His ministry—the promulgation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Alluded to in the Kitáb-i-Íqán, the principal
repository of that Law which the Prophet Isaiah had anticipated, and which the writer of the
Apocalypse had described as the “new heaven” and the “new earth,” as “the Tabernacle of God,” as the
“Holy City,” as the “Bride,” the “New Jerusalem coming down from God,” this “Most Holy Book,” whose
provisions must remain inviolate for no less than a thousand years, and whose system will
embrace the entire planet, may well be regarded as the brightest emanation of the mind of
Bahá’u’lláh, as the Mother Book of His Dispensation, and the Charter of His New World Order.
Revealed soon after Bahá’u’lláh had been transferred to the house of ‘Údí Khammár (circa
1873), at a time when He was still encompassed by the tribulations that had afﬂicted Him,
through the acts committed by His enemies and the professed adherents of His Faith, this Book,
this treasury enshrining the priceless gems of His Revelation, stands out, by virtue of the
principles it inculcates, the administrative institutions it ordains and the function with which it
invests the appointed Successor of its Author, unique and incomparable among the world’s sacred
Scriptures. For, unlike the Old Testament and the Holy Books which preceded it, in which the
actual precepts uttered by the Prophet Himself are nonexistent; unlike the Gospels, in which the
few sayings attributed to Jesus Christ afford no clear guidance regarding the future administration
of the affairs of His Faith; unlike even the Qur’án which, though explicit in the laws and
ordinances formulated by the Apostle of God, is silent on the all-important subject of the
succession, the Kitáb-i-Aqdas, revealed from ﬁrst to last by the Author of the Dispensation
Himself, not only preserves for posterity the basic laws and ordinances on which the fabric of His
future World Order must rest, but ordains, in addition to the function of interpretation which it
confers upon His Successor, the necessary institutions through which the integrity and unity of
His Faith can alone be safeguarded.
In this Charter of the future world civilization its Author—at once the Judge, the Lawgiver, the
Uniﬁer and Redeemer of mankind—announces to the kings of the earth the promulgation of the
“Most Great Law”; pronounces them to be His vassals; proclaims Himself the “King of Kings”;
disclaims any intention of laying hands on their kingdoms; reserves for Himself the right to “seize
and possess the hearts of men”; warns the world’s ecclesiastical leaders not to weigh the “Book of
God” with such standards as are current amongst them; and afﬁrms that the Book itself is the
“Unerring Balance” established amongst men. In it He formally ordains the institution of the “House
of Justice,” deﬁnes its functions, ﬁxes its revenues, and designates its members as the “Men of
Justice,” the “Deputies of God,” the “Trustees of the All-Merciful”; alludes to the future Center of His
Covenant, and invests Him with the right of interpreting His holy Writ; anticipates by implication
the institution of Guardianship; bears witness to the revolutionizing effect of His World Order;
enunciates the doctrine of the “Most Great Infallibility” of the Manifestation of God; asserts this
infallibility to be the inherent and exclusive right of the Prophet; and rules out the possibility of
the appearance of another Manifestation ere the lapse of at least one thousand years.
In this Book He, moreover, prescribes the obligatory prayers; designates the time and period of
fasting; prohibits congregational prayer except for the dead; ﬁxes the Qiblih; institutes the
Ḥuqúqu’lláh (Right of God); formulates the law of inheritance; ordains the institution of the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkár; establishes the Nineteen Day Feast, the Bahá’í festivals and the Intercalary
Days; abolishes the institution of priesthood; prohibits slavery, asceticism, mendicancy,
monasticism, penance, the use of pulpits and the kissing of hands; prescribes monogamy;

condemns cruelty to animals, idleness and sloth, backbiting and calumny; censures divorce;
interdicts gambling, the use of opium, wine and other intoxicating drinks; speciﬁes the
punishments for murder, arson, adultery and theft; stresses the importance of marriage and lays
down its essential conditions; imposes the obligation of engaging in some trade or profession,
exalting such occupation to the rank of worship; emphasizes the necessity of providing the means
for the education of children; and lays upon every person the duty of writing a testament and of
strict obedience to one’s government.
Apart from these provisions Bahá’u’lláh exhorts His followers to consort, with amity and
concord and without discrimination, with the adherents of all religions; warns them to guard
against fanaticism, sedition, pride, dispute and contention; inculcates upon them immaculate
cleanliness, strict truthfulness, spotless chastity, trustworthiness, hospitality, ﬁdelity, courtesy,
forbearance, justice and fairness; counsels them to be “even as the ﬁngers of one hand and the limbs
of one body”; calls upon them to arise and serve His Cause; and assures them of His undoubted aid.
He, furthermore, dwells upon the instability of human affairs; declares that true liberty consists in
man’s submission to His commandments; cautions them not to be indulgent in carrying out His
statutes; prescribes the twin inseparable duties of recognizing the “Dayspring of God’s Revelation”
and of observing all the ordinances revealed by Him, neither of which, He afﬁrms, is acceptable
without the other.
The signiﬁcant summons issued to the Presidents of the Republics of the American continent
to seize their opportunity in the Day of God and to champion the cause of justice; the injunction
to the members of parliaments throughout the world, urging the adoption of a universal script and
language; His warnings to William I, the conqueror of Napoleon III; the reproof He administers to
Francis Joseph, the Emperor of Austria; His reference to “the lamentations of Berlin” in His
apostrophe to “the banks of the Rhine”; His condemnation of “the throne of tyranny” established in
Constantinople, and His prediction of the extinction of its “outward splendor” and of the tribulations
destined to overtake its inhabitants; the words of cheer and comfort He addresses to His native
city, assuring her that God had chosen her to be “the source of the joy of all mankind”; His prophecy
that “the voice of the heroes of Khurásán” will be raised in gloriﬁcation of their Lord; His assertion
that men “endued with mighty valor” will be raised up in Kirmán who will make mention of Him;
and ﬁnally, His magnanimous assurance to a perﬁdious brother who had afﬂicted Him with such
anguish, that an “ever-forgiving, all-bounteous” God would forgive him his iniquities were he only to
repent—all these further enrich the contents of a Book designated by its Author as “the source of
true felicity,” as the “Unerring Balance,” as the “Straight Path,” and as the “quickener of mankind.”
The laws and ordinances that constitute the major theme of this Book, Bahá’u’lláh, moreover,
has speciﬁcally characterized as “the breath of life unto all created things,” as “the mightiest stronghold,”
as the “fruits” of His “Tree,” as “the highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and the
security of its peoples,” as “the lamps of His wisdom and loving-providence,” as “the sweet-smelling savor
of His garment,” and the “keys” of His “mercy” to His creatures. “This Book,” He Himself testiﬁes, “is a
heaven which We have adorned with the stars of Our commandments and prohibitions.” “Blessed the man,”
He, moreover, has stated, “who will read it, and ponder the verses sent down in it by God, the Lord of
Power, the Almighty. Say, O men! Take hold of it with the hand of resignation … By My life! It hath been
sent down in a manner that amazeth the minds of men. Verily, it is My weightiest testimony unto all
people, and the proof of the All-Merciful unto all who are in heaven and all who are on earth.” And
again: “Blessed the palate that savoreth its sweetness, and the perceiving eye that recognizeth that which is
treasured therein, and the understanding heart that comprehendeth its allusions and mysteries. By God!
Such is the majesty of what hath been revealed therein, and so tremendous the revelation of its veiled
allusions that the loins of utterance shake when attempting their description.” And ﬁnally: “In such a
manner hath the Kitáb-i-Aqdas been revealed that it attracteth and embraceth all the divinely appointed
Dispensations. Blessed those who peruse it! Blessed those who apprehend it! Blessed those who meditate
upon it! Blessed those who ponder its meaning! So vast is its range that it hath encompassed all men ere
their recognition of it. Erelong will its sovereign power, its pervasive inﬂuence and the greatness of its
might be manifested on earth.”

The Kitáb-i-Aqdas
IN THE NAME OF HIM WHO IS THE SUPREME RULER OVER ALL THAT HATH
BEEN AND ALL THAT IS TO BE
THE ﬁrst duty prescribed by God for His servants is the recognition of Him Who is the Dayspring
of His Revelation and the Fountain of His laws, Who representeth the Godhead in both the
Kingdom of His Cause and the world of creation. Whoso achieveth this duty hath attained unto all
good; and whoso is deprived thereof hath gone astray, though he be the author of every righteous
deed. It behooveth everyone who reacheth this most sublime station, this summit of transcendent
glory, to observe every ordinance of Him Who is the Desire of the world. These twin duties are
inseparable. Neither is acceptable without the other. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the
Source of Divine inspiration.
They whom God hath endued with insight will readily recognize that the precepts laid down
by God constitute the highest means for the maintenance of order in the world and the security of
its peoples. He that turneth away from them is accounted among the abject and foolish. We,
verily, have commanded you to refuse the dictates of your evil passions and corrupt desires, and
not to transgress the bounds which the Pen of the Most High hath ﬁxed, for these are the breath
of life unto all created things. The seas of Divine wisdom and Divine utterance have risen under
the breath of the breeze of the All-Merciful. Hasten to drink your ﬁll, O men of understanding!
They that have violated the Covenant of God by breaking His commandments, and have turned
back on their heels, these have erred grievously in the sight of God, the All-Possessing, the Most
High.
O ye peoples of the world! Know assuredly that My commandments are the lamps of My
loving providence among My servants, and the keys of My mercy for My creatures. Thus hath it
been sent down from the heaven of the Will of your Lord, the Lord of Revelation. Were any man
to taste the sweetness of the words which the lips of the All-Merciful have willed to utter, he
would, though the treasures of the earth be in his possession, renounce them one and all, that he
might vindicate the truth of even one of His commandments, shining above the Dayspring of His
bountiful care and loving-kindness.
Say: From My laws the sweet-smelling savor of My garment can be smelled, and by their aid
the standards of Victory will be planted upon the highest peaks. The Tongue of My power hath,
from the heaven of My omnipotent glory, addressed to My creation these words: “Observe My
commandments, for the love of My beauty.” Happy is the lover that hath inhaled the divine
fragrance of his Best-Beloved from these words, laden with the perfume of a grace which no
tongue can describe. By My life! He who hath drunk the choice wine of fairness from the hands of
My bountiful favor will circle around My commandments that shine above the Dayspring of My
creation.
Think not that We have revealed unto you a mere code of laws. Nay, rather, We have
unsealed the choice Wine with the ﬁngers of might and power. To this beareth witness that which
the Pen of Revelation hath revealed. Meditate upon this, O men of insight!
We have enjoined obligatory prayer upon you, with nine rak‘ahs, to be offered at noon and in
the morning and the evening unto God, the Revealer of Verses. We have relieved you of a greater
number, as a command in the Book of God. He, verily, is the Ordainer, the Omnipotent, the
Unrestrained. When ye desire to perform this prayer, turn ye towards the Court of My Most Holy
Presence, this Hallowed Spot that God hath made the Center round which circle the Concourse on
high, and which He hath decreed to be the Point of Adoration for the denizens of the Cities of
Eternity, and the Source of Command unto all that are in heaven and on earth; and when the Sun
of Truth and Utterance shall set, turn your faces towards the Spot that We have ordained for you.
He, verily, is Almighty and Omniscient.
Everything that is hath come to be through His irresistible decree. Whenever My laws appear
like the sun in the heaven of Mine utterance, they must be faithfully obeyed by all, though My1
2
3
4
5
6
7

decree be such as to cause the heaven of every religion to be cleft asunder. He doeth what He
pleaseth. He chooseth, and none may question His choice. Whatsoever He, the Well-Beloved,
ordaineth, the same is, verily, beloved. To this He Who is the Lord of all creation beareth Me
witness. Whoso hath inhaled the sweet fragrance of the All-Merciful, and recognized the Source of
this utterance, will welcome with his own eyes the shafts of the enemy, that he may establish the
truth of the laws of God amongst men. Well is it with him that hath turned thereunto, and
apprehended the meaning of His decisive decree.
We have set forth the details of obligatory prayer in another Tablet. Blessed is he who
observeth that whereunto he hath been bidden by Him Who ruleth over all mankind. In the Prayer
for the Dead six speciﬁc passages have been sent down by God, the Revealer of Verses. Let one
who is able to read recite that which hath been revealed to precede these passages; and as for him
who is unable, God hath relieved him of this requirement. He, of a truth, is the Mighty, the
Pardoner.
Hair doth not invalidate your prayer, nor aught from which the spirit hath departed, such as
bones and the like. Ye are free to wear the fur of the sable as ye would that of the beaver, the
squirrel, and other animals; the prohibition of its use hath stemmed, not from the Qur’án, but from
the misconceptions of the divines. He, verily, is the All-Glorious, the All-Knowing.
We have commanded you to pray and fast from the beginning of maturity; this is ordained by
God, your Lord and the Lord of your forefathers. He hath exempted from this those who are weak
from illness or age, as a bounty from His Presence, and He is the Forgiving, the Generous. God
hath granted you leave to prostrate yourselves on any surface that is clean, for We have removed
in this regard the limitation that had been laid down in the Book; God, indeed, hath knowledge of
that whereof ye know naught. Let him that ﬁndeth no water for ablution repeat ﬁve times the
words “In the Name of God, the Most Pure, the Most Pure,” and then proceed to his devotions. Such
is the command of the Lord of all worlds. In regions where the days and nights grow long, let
times of prayer be gauged by clocks and other instruments that mark the passage of the hours.
He, verily, is the Expounder, the Wise.
We have absolved you from the requirement of performing the Prayer of the Signs. On the
appearance of fearful natural events call ye to mind the might and majesty of your Lord, He Who
heareth and seeth all, and say “Dominion is God’s, the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord
of creation.”
It hath been ordained that obligatory prayer is to be performed by each of you individually.
Save in the Prayer for the Dead, the practice of congregational prayer hath been annulled. He, of a
truth, is the Ordainer, the All-Wise.
God hath exempted women who are in their courses from obligatory prayer and fasting. Let
them, instead, after performance of their ablutions, give praise unto God, repeating ninety-ﬁve
times between the noon of one day and the next “Gloriﬁed be God, the Lord of Splendor and
Beauty.” Thus hath it been decreed in the Book, if ye be of them that comprehend.
When traveling, if ye should stop and rest in some safe spot, perform ye—men and women
alike—a single prostration in place of each unsaid Obligatory Prayer, and while prostrating say
“Gloriﬁed be God, the Lord of Might and Majesty, of Grace and Bounty.” Whoso is unable to do this,
let him say only “Gloriﬁed be God”; this shall assuredly sufﬁce him. He is, of a truth, the all-
sufﬁcing, the ever-abiding, the forgiving, compassionate God. Upon completing your prostrations,
seat yourselves cross-legged—men and women alike—and eighteen times repeat “Gloriﬁed be God,
the Lord of the kingdoms of earth and heaven.” Thus doth the Lord make plain the ways of truth
and guidance, ways that lead to one way, which is this Straight Path. Render thanks unto God for
this most gracious favor; offer praise unto Him for this bounty that hath encompassed the
heavens and the earth; extol Him for this mercy that hath pervaded all creation.
Say: God hath made My hidden love the key to the Treasure; would that ye might perceive it!
But for the key, the Treasure would to all eternity have remained concealed; would that ye might
believe it! Say: This is the Source of Revelation, the Dawning-place of Splendor, Whose brightness
hath illumined the horizons of the world. Would that ye might understand! This is, verily, that
ﬁxed Decree through which every irrevocable decree hath been established.8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

O Pen of the Most High! Say: O people of the world! We have enjoined upon you fasting
during a brief period, and at its close have designated for you Naw-Rúz as a feast. Thus hath the
Daystar of Utterance shone forth above the horizon of the Book as decreed by Him Who is the
Lord of the beginning and the end. Let the days in excess of the months be placed before the
month of fasting. We have ordained that these, amid all nights and days, shall be the
manifestations of the letter Há, and thus they have not been bounded by the limits of the year
and its months. It behooveth the people of Bahá, throughout these days, to provide good cheer for
themselves, their kindred and, beyond them, the poor and needy, and with joy and exultation to
hail and glorify their Lord, to sing His praise and magnify His Name; and when they end—these
days of giving that precede the season of restraint—let them enter upon the Fast. Thus hath it
been ordained by Him Who is the Lord of all mankind. The traveler, the ailing, those who are with
child or giving suck, are not bound by the Fast; they have been exempted by God as a token of His
grace. He, verily, is the Almighty, the Most Generous.
These are the ordinances of God that have been set down in the Books and Tablets by His
Most Exalted Pen. Hold ye fast unto His statutes and commandments, and be not of those who,
following their idle fancies and vain imaginings, have clung to the standards ﬁxed by their own
selves, and cast behind their backs the standards laid down by God. Abstain from food and drink
from sunrise to sundown, and beware lest desire deprive you of this grace that is appointed in the
Book.
It hath been ordained that every believer in God, the Lord of Judgment, shall, each day, having
washed his hands and then his face, seat himself and, turning unto God, repeat “Alláh-u-Abhá”
ninety-ﬁve times. Such was the decree of the Maker of the Heavens when, with majesty and
power, He established Himself upon the thrones of His Names. Perform ye, likewise, ablutions for
the Obligatory Prayer; this is the command of God, the Incomparable, the Unrestrained.
Ye have been forbidden to commit murder or adultery, or to engage in backbiting or calumny;
shun ye, then, what hath been prohibited in the holy Books and Tablets.
We have divided inheritance into seven categories: to the children, We have allotted nine parts
comprising ﬁve hundred and forty shares; to the wife, eight parts comprising four hundred and
eighty shares; to the father, seven parts comprising four hundred and twenty shares; to the
mother, six parts comprising three hundred and sixty shares; to the brothers, ﬁve parts or three
hundred shares; to the sisters, four parts or two hundred and forty shares; and to the teachers,
three parts or one hundred and eighty shares. Such was the ordinance of My Forerunner, He Who
extolleth My Name in the night season and at the break of day. When We heard the clamor of the
children as yet unborn, We doubled their share and decreased those of the rest. He, of a truth, hath
power to ordain whatsoever He desireth, and He doeth as He pleaseth by virtue of His sovereign
might.
Should the deceased leave no offspring, their share shall revert to the House of Justice, to be
expended by the Trustees of the All-Merciful on the orphaned and widowed, and on whatsoever
will bring beneﬁt to the generality of the people, that all may give thanks unto their Lord, the All-
Gracious, the Pardoner.
Should the deceased leave offspring, but none of the other categories of heirs that have been
speciﬁed in the Book, they shall receive two-thirds of the inheritance and the remaining third
shall revert to the House of Justice. Such is the command which hath been given, in majesty and
glory, by Him Who is the All-Possessing, the Most High.
If the deceased should leave none of the speciﬁed heirs, but have among his relatives
nephews and nieces, whether on his brother’s or his sister’s side, two-thirds of the inheritance
shall pass to them; or, lacking these, to his uncles and aunts on both his father’s and his mother’s
side, and after them to their sons and daughters. The remaining third of the inheritance shall, in
any case, revert to the Seat of Justice. Thus hath it been laid down in the Book by Him Who
ruleth over all men.
Should the deceased be survived by none of those whose names have been recorded by the
Pen of the Most High, his estate shall, in its entirety, revert to the aforementioned Seat that it
may be expended on that which is prescribed by God. He, verily, is the Ordainer, the Omnipotent.16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24

We have assigned the residence and personal clothing of the deceased to the male, not female,
offspring, nor to the other heirs. He, verily, is the Muniﬁcent, the All-Bountiful.
Should the son of the deceased have passed away in the days of his father and have left
children, they will inherit their father’s share, as prescribed in the Book of God. Divide ye their
share amongst them with perfect justice. Thus have the billows of the Ocean of Utterance surged,
casting forth the pearls of the laws decreed by the Lord of all mankind.
If the deceased should leave children who are under age, their share of the inheritance must
be entrusted to a reliable individual, or to a company, that it may be invested on their behalf in
trade and business until they come of age. The trustee should be assigned a due share of the proﬁt
that hath accrued to it from being thus employed.
Division of the estate should take place only after the Ḥuqúqu’lláh hath been paid, any debts
have been settled, the expenses of the funeral and burial defrayed, and such provision made that
the deceased may be carried to his resting-place with dignity and honor. Thus hath it been
ordained by Him Who is Lord of the beginning and the end.
Say: This is that hidden knowledge which shall never change, since its beginning is with nine,
the symbol that betokeneth the concealed and manifest, the inviolable and unapproachably
exalted Name. As for what We have appropriated to the children, this is a bounty conferred on
them by God, that they may render thanks unto their Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful.
These, verily, are the Laws of God; transgress them not at the prompting of your base and selﬁsh
desires. Observe ye the injunctions laid upon you by Him Who is the Dawning-place of Utterance.
The sincere among His servants will regard the precepts set forth by God as the Water of Life to
the followers of every faith, and the Lamp of wisdom and loving providence to all the denizens of
earth and heaven.
The Lord hath ordained that in every city a House of Justice be established wherein shall
gather counselors to the number of Bahá, and should it exceed this number it doth not matter.
They should consider themselves as entering the Court of the presence of God, the Exalted, the
Most High, and as beholding Him Who is the Unseen. It behooveth them to be the trusted ones of
the Merciful among men and to regard themselves as the guardians appointed of God for all that
dwell on earth. It is incumbent upon them to take counsel together and to have regard for the
interests of the servants of God, for His sake, even as they regard their own interests, and to
choose that which is meet and seemly. Thus hath the Lord your God commanded you. Beware lest
ye put away that which is clearly revealed in His Tablet. Fear God, O ye that perceive.
O people of the world! Build ye houses of worship throughout the lands in the name of Him
Who is the Lord of all religions. Make them as perfect as is possible in the world of being, and
adorn them with that which beﬁtteth them, not with images and efﬁgies. Then, with radiance and
joy, celebrate therein the praise of your Lord, the Most Compassionate. Verily, by His
remembrance the eye is cheered and the heart is ﬁlled with light.
The Lord hath ordained that those of you who are able shall make pilgrimage to the sacred
House, and from this He hath exempted women as a mercy on His part. He, of a truth, is the All-
Bountiful, the Most Generous.
O people of Bahá! It is incumbent upon each one of you to engage in some occupation—such
as a craft, a trade or the like. We have exalted your engagement in such work to the rank of
worship of the one true God. Reﬂect, O people, on the grace and blessings of your Lord, and yield
Him thanks at eventide and dawn. Waste not your hours in idleness and sloth, but occupy
yourselves with what will proﬁt you and others. Thus hath it been decreed in this Tablet from
whose horizon hath shone the daystar of wisdom and utterance. The most despised of men in the
sight of God are they who sit and beg. Hold ye fast unto the cord of means and place your trust in
God, the Provider of all means.
The kissing of hands hath been forbidden in the Book. This practice is prohibited by God, the
Lord of glory and command. To none is it permitted to seek absolution from another soul; let
repentance be between yourselves and God. He, verily, is the Pardoner, the Bounteous, the
Gracious, the One Who absolveth the repentant.25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34

O ye servants of the Merciful One! Arise to serve the Cause of God, in such wise that the
cares and sorrows caused by them that have disbelieved in the Dayspring of the Signs of God may
not afﬂict you. At the time when the Promise was fulﬁlled and the Promised One made manifest,
differences have appeared amongst the kindreds of the earth and each people hath followed its
own fancy and idle imaginings.
Amongst the people is he who seateth himself amid the sandals by the door whilst coveting
in his heart the seat of honor. Say: What manner of man art thou, O vain and heedless one, who
wouldst appear as other than thou art? And among the people is he who layeth claim to inner
knowledge, and still deeper knowledge concealed within this knowledge. Say: Thou speakest false!
By God! What thou dost possess is naught but husks which We have left to thee as bones are left
to dogs. By the righteousness of the one true God! Were anyone to wash the feet of all mankind,
and were he to worship God in the forests, valleys, and mountains, upon high hills and lofty
peaks, to leave no rock or tree, no clod of earth, but was a witness to his worship—yet, should the
fragrance of My good pleasure not be inhaled from him, his works would never be acceptable unto
God. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Lord of all. How many a man hath secluded
himself in the climes of India, denied himself the things that God hath decreed as lawful, imposed
upon himself austerities and mortiﬁcations, and hath not been remembered by God, the Revealer
of Verses. Make not your deeds as snares wherewith to entrap the object of your aspiration, and
deprive not yourselves of this Ultimate Objective for which have ever yearned all such as have
drawn nigh unto God. Say: The very life of all deeds is My good pleasure, and all things depend
upon Mine acceptance. Read ye the Tablets that ye may know what hath been purposed in the
Books of God, the All-Glorious, the Ever-Bounteous. He who attaineth to My love hath title to a
throne of gold, to sit thereon in honor over all the world; he who is deprived thereof, though he sit
upon the dust, that dust would seek refuge with God, the Lord of all Religions.
Whoso layeth claim to a Revelation direct from God, ere the expiration of a full thousand
years, such a man is assuredly a lying impostor. We pray God that He may graciously assist him
to retract and repudiate such claim. Should he repent, God will, no doubt, forgive him. If, however,
he persisteth in his error, God will, assuredly, send down one who will deal mercilessly with him.
Terrible, indeed, is God in punishing! Whosoever interpreteth this verse otherwise than its obvious
meaning is deprived of the Spirit of God and of His mercy which encompasseth all created things.
Fear God, and follow not your idle fancies. Nay, rather, follow the bidding of your Lord, the
Almighty, the All-Wise. Erelong shall clamorous voices be raised in most lands. Shun them, O My
people, and follow not the iniquitous and evilhearted. This is that of which We gave you
forewarning when We were dwelling in ‘Iráq, then later while in the Land of Mystery, and now
from this Resplendent Spot.
Be not dismayed, O peoples of the world, when the daystar of My beauty is set, and the
heaven of My tabernacle is concealed from your eyes. Arise to further My Cause, and to exalt My
Word amongst men. We are with you at all times, and shall strengthen you through the power of
truth. We are truly almighty. Whoso hath recognized Me will arise and serve Me with such
determination that the powers of earth and heaven shall be unable to defeat his purpose.
The peoples of the world are fast asleep. Were they to wake from their slumber, they would
hasten with eagerness unto God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. They would cast away everything
they possess, be it all the treasures of the earth, that their Lord may remember them to the extent
of addressing to them but one word. Such is the instruction given you by Him Who holdeth the
knowledge of things hidden, in a Tablet which the eye of creation hath not seen, and which is
revealed to none except His own Self, the omnipotent Protector of all worlds. So bewildered are
they in the drunkenness of their evil desires, that they are powerless to recognize the Lord of all
being, Whose voice calleth aloud from every direction: “There is none other God but Me, the
Mighty, the All-Wise.”
Say: Rejoice not in the things ye possess; tonight they are yours, tomorrow others will possess
them. Thus warneth you He Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. Say: Can ye claim that
what ye own is lasting or secure? Nay! By Myself, the All-Merciful, ye cannot, if ye be of them
who judge fairly. The days of your life ﬂee away as a breath of wind, and all your pomp and glory35
36
37
38
39
40

shall be folded up as were the pomp and glory of those gone before you. Reﬂect, O people! What
hath become of your bygone days, your lost centuries? Happy the days that have been
consecrated to the remembrance of God, and blessed the hours which have been spent in praise of
Him Who is the All-Wise. By My life! Neither the pomp of the mighty, nor the wealth of the rich,
nor even the ascendancy of the ungodly will endure. All will perish, at a word from Him. He,
verily, is the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling, the Almighty. What advantage is there in the
earthly things which men possess? That which shall proﬁt them, they have utterly neglected.
Erelong, they will awake from their slumber, and ﬁnd themselves unable to obtain that which hath
escaped them in the days of their Lord, the Almighty, the All-Praised. Did they but know it, they
would renounce their all, that their names may be mentioned before His throne. They, verily, are
accounted among the dead.
Amongst the people is he whose learning hath made him proud, and who hath been debarred
thereby from recognizing My Name, the Self-Subsisting; who, when he heareth the tread of
sandals following behind him, waxeth greater in his own esteem than Nimrod. Say: O rejected one!
Where now is his abode? By God, it is the nethermost ﬁre. Say: O concourse of divines! Hear ye
not the shrill voice of My Most Exalted Pen? See ye not this Sun that shineth in refulgent splendor
above the All-Glorious Horizon? For how long will ye worship the idols of your evil passions?
Forsake your vain imaginings, and turn yourselves unto God, your Everlasting Lord.
Endowments dedicated to charity revert to God, the Revealer of Signs. None hath the right to
dispose of them without leave from Him Who is the Dawning-place of Revelation. After Him, this
authority shall pass to the Aghṣán, and after them to the House of Justice—should it be
established in the world by then—that they may use these endowments for the beneﬁt of the
Places which have been exalted in this Cause, and for whatsoever hath been enjoined upon them
by Him Who is the God of might and power. Otherwise, the endowments shall revert to the
people of Bahá who speak not except by His leave and judge not save in accordance with what
God hath decreed in this Tablet—lo, they are the champions of victory betwixt heaven and earth—
that they may use them in the manner that hath been laid down in the Book by God, the Mighty,
the Bountiful.
Lament not in your hours of trial, neither rejoice therein; seek ye the Middle Way which is
the remembrance of Me in your afﬂictions and reﬂection over that which may befall you in future.
Thus informeth you He Who is the Omniscient, He Who is aware.
Shave not your heads; God hath adorned them with hair, and in this there are signs from the
Lord of creation to those who reﬂect upon the requirements of nature. He, verily, is the God of
strength and wisdom. Notwithstanding, it is not seemly to let the hair pass beyond the limit of the
ears. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Lord of all worlds.
Exile and imprisonment are decreed for the thief, and, on the third offense, place ye a mark
upon his brow so that, thus identiﬁed, he may not be accepted in the cities of God and His
countries. Beware lest, through compassion, ye neglect to carry out the statutes of the religion of
God; do that which hath been bidden you by Him Who is compassionate and merciful. We school
you with the rod of wisdom and laws, like unto the father who educateth his son, and this for
naught but the protection of your own selves and the elevation of your stations. By My life, were
ye to discover what We have desired for you in revealing Our holy laws, ye would offer up your
very souls for this sacred, this mighty, and most exalted Faith.
Whoso wisheth to make use of vessels of silver and gold is at liberty to do so. Take heed lest,
when partaking of food, ye plunge your hands into the contents of bowls and platters. Adopt ye
such usages as are most in keeping with reﬁnement. He, verily, desireth to see in you the
manners of the inmates of Paradise in His mighty and most sublime Kingdom. Hold ye fast unto
reﬁnement under all conditions, that your eyes may be preserved from beholding what is
repugnant both to your own selves and to the dwellers of Paradise. Should anyone depart
therefrom, his deed shall at that moment be rendered vain; yet should he have good reason, God
will excuse him. He, in truth, is the Gracious, the Most Bountiful.
He Who is the Dawning-place of God’s Cause hath no partner in the Most Great Infallibility.
He it is Who, in the kingdom of creation, is the Manifestation of “He doeth whatsoever He41
42
43
44
45
46
47

willeth.” God hath reserved this distinction unto His own Self, and ordained for none a share in so
sublime and transcendent a station. This is the Decree of God, concealed ere now within the veil
of impenetrable mystery. We have disclosed it in this Revelation, and have thereby rent asunder
the veils of such as have failed to recognize that which the Book of God set forth and who were
numbered with the heedless.
Unto every father hath been enjoined the instruction of his son and daughter in the art of
reading and writing and in all that hath been laid down in the Holy Tablet. He that putteth away
that which is commanded unto him, the Trustees are then to take from him that which is required
for their instruction if he be wealthy and, if not, the matter devolveth upon the House of Justice.
Verily have We made it a shelter for the poor and needy. He that bringeth up his son or the son of
another, it is as though he hath brought up a son of Mine; upon him rest My glory, My loving-
kindness, My mercy, that have compassed the world.
God hath imposed a ﬁne on every adulterer and adulteress, to be paid to the House of Justice:
nine mithqáls of gold, to be doubled if they should repeat the offense. Such is the penalty which
He Who is the Lord of Names hath assigned them in this world; and in the world to come He hath
ordained for them a humiliating torment. Should anyone be afﬂicted by a sin, it behooveth him to
repent thereof and return unto his Lord. He, verily, granteth forgiveness unto whomsoever He
willeth, and none may question that which it pleaseth Him to ordain. He is, in truth, the Ever-
Forgiving, the Almighty, the All-Praised.
Beware lest ye be hindered by the veils of glory from partaking of the crystal waters of this
living Fountain. Seize ye the chalice of salvation at this dawntide in the name of Him Who
causeth the day to break, and drink your ﬁll in praise of Him Who is the All-Glorious, the
Incomparable.
We have made it lawful for you to listen to music and singing. Take heed, however, lest
listening thereto should cause you to overstep the bounds of propriety and dignity. Let your joy be
the joy born of My Most Great Name, a Name that bringeth rapture to the heart, and ﬁlleth with
ecstasy the minds of all who have drawn nigh unto God. We, verily, have made music as a ladder
for your souls, a means whereby they may be lifted up unto the realm on high; make it not,
therefore, as wings to self and passion. Truly, We are loath to see you numbered with the foolish.
We have decreed that a third part of all ﬁnes shall go to the Seat of Justice, and We admonish
its men to observe pure justice, that they may expend what is thus accumulated for such purposes
as have been enjoined upon them by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. O ye Men of
Justice! Be ye, in the realm of God, shepherds unto His sheep and guard them from the ravening
wolves that have appeared in disguise, even as ye would guard your own sons. Thus exhorteth
you the Counselor, the Faithful.
Should differences arise amongst you over any matter, refer it to God while the Sun still
shineth above the horizon of this Heaven and, when it hath set, refer ye to whatsoever hath been
sent down by Him. This, verily, is sufﬁcient unto the peoples of the world. Say: Let not your
hearts be perturbed, O people, when the glory of My Presence is withdrawn, and the ocean of My
utterance is stilled. In My presence amongst you there is a wisdom, and in My absence there is yet
another, inscrutable to all but God, the Incomparable, the All-Knowing. Verily, We behold you from
Our realm of glory, and shall aid whosoever will arise for the triumph of Our Cause with the hosts
of the Concourse on high and a company of Our favored angels.
O peoples of the earth! God, the Eternal Truth, is My witness that streams of fresh and soft-
ﬂowing waters have gushed from the rocks through the sweetness of the words uttered by your
Lord, the Unconstrained; and still ye slumber. Cast away that which ye possess, and, on the wings
of detachment, soar beyond all created things. Thus biddeth you the Lord of creation, the
movement of Whose Pen hath revolutionized the soul of mankind.
Know ye from what heights your Lord, the All-Glorious, is calling? Think ye that ye have
recognized the Pen wherewith your Lord, the Lord of all names, commandeth you? Nay, by My
life! Did ye but know it, ye would renounce the world, and would hasten with your whole hearts
to the presence of the Well-Beloved. Your spirits would be so transported by His Word as to throw
into commotion the Greater World—how much more this small and petty one! Thus have the48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55

showers of My bounty been poured down from the heaven of My loving-kindness, as a token of
My grace, that ye may be of the thankful.
The penalties for wounding or striking a person depend upon the severity of the injury; for
each degree the Lord of Judgment hath prescribed a certain indemnity. He is, in truth, the
Ordainer, the Mighty, the Most Exalted. We shall, if it be Our Will, set forth these payments in
their just degrees—this is a promise on Our part, and He, verily, is the Keeper of His pledge, the
Knower of all things.
Verily, it is enjoined upon you to offer a feast, once in every month, though only water be
served; for God hath purposed to bind hearts together, albeit through both earthly and heavenly
means.
Beware lest the desires of the ﬂesh and of a corrupt inclination provoke divisions among you.
Be ye as the ﬁngers of one hand, the members of one body. Thus counseleth you the Pen of
Revelation, if ye be of them that believe.
Consider the mercy of God and His gifts. He enjoineth upon you that which shall proﬁt you,
though He Himself can well dispense with all creatures. Your evil doings can never harm Us,
neither can your good works proﬁt Us. We summon you wholly for the sake of God. To this every
man of understanding and insight will testify.
If ye should hunt with beasts or birds of prey, invoke ye the Name of God when ye send them
to pursue their quarry; for then whatever they catch shall be lawful unto you, even should ye ﬁnd
it to have died. He, verily, is the Omniscient, the All-Informed. Take heed, however, that ye hunt
not to excess. Tread ye the path of justice and equity in all things. Thus biddeth you He Who is
the Dawning-place of Revelation, would that ye might comprehend.
God hath bidden you to show forth kindliness towards My kindred, but He hath granted them
no right to the property of others. He, verily, is self-sufﬁcient, above any need of His creatures.
Should anyone intentionally destroy a house by ﬁre, him also shall ye burn; should anyone
deliberately take another’s life, him also shall ye put to death. Take ye hold of the precepts of God
with all your strength and power, and abandon the ways of the ignorant. Should ye condemn the
arsonist and the murderer to life imprisonment, it would be permissible according to the provisions
of the Book. He, verily, hath power to ordain whatsoever He pleaseth.
God hath prescribed matrimony unto you. Beware that ye take not unto yourselves more
wives than two. Whoso contenteth himself with a single partner from among the maidservants of
God, both he and she shall live in tranquillity. And he who would take into his service a maid may
do so with propriety. Such is the ordinance which, in truth and justice, hath been recorded by the
Pen of Revelation. Enter into wedlock, O people, that ye may bring forth one who will make
mention of Me amid My servants. This is My bidding unto you; hold fast to it as an assistance to
yourselves.
O people of the world! Follow not the promptings of the self, for it summoneth insistently to
wickedness and lust; follow, rather, Him Who is the Possessor of all created things, Who biddeth
you to show forth piety, and manifest the fear of God. He, verily, is independent of all His
creatures. Take heed not to stir up mischief in the land after it hath been set in order. Whoso
acteth in this way is not of Us, and We are quit of him. Such is the command which hath, through
the power of truth, been made manifest from the heaven of Revelation.
It hath been laid down in the Bayán that marriage is dependent upon the consent of both
parties. Desiring to establish love, unity and harmony amidst Our servants, We have conditioned
it, once the couple’s wish is known, upon the permission of their parents, lest enmity and rancor
should arise amongst them. And in this We have yet other purposes. Thus hath Our
commandment been ordained.
No marriage may be contracted without payment of a dowry, which hath been ﬁxed for city
dwellers at nineteen mithqáls of pure gold, and for village dwellers at the same amount in silver.
Whoso wisheth to increase this sum, it is forbidden him to exceed the limit of ninety-ﬁve
mithqáls. Thus hath the command been writ in majesty and power. If he content himself, however,
with a payment of the lowest level, it shall be better for him according to the Book. God, verily,56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66

enricheth whomsoever He willeth through both heavenly and earthly means, and He, in truth,
hath power over all things.
It hath been decreed by God that, should any one of His servants intend to travel, he must ﬁx
for his wife a time when he will return home. If he return by the promised time, he will have
obeyed the bidding of his Lord and shall be numbered by the Pen of His behest among the
righteous; otherwise, if there be good reason for delay, he must inform his wife and make the
utmost endeavor to return to her. Should neither of these eventualities occur, it behooveth her to
wait for a period of nine months, after which there is no impediment to her taking another
husband; but should she wait longer, God, verily, loveth those women and men who show forth
patience. Obey ye My commandments, and follow not the ungodly, they who have been reckoned
as sinners in God’s Holy Tablet. If, during the period of her waiting, word should reach her from
her husband, she should choose the course that is praiseworthy. He, of a truth, desireth that His
servants and His handmaids should be at peace with one another; take heed lest ye do aught that
may provoke intransigence amongst you. Thus hath the decree been ﬁxed and the promise come
to pass. If, however, news should reach her of her husband’s death or murder, and be conﬁrmed by
general report, or by the testimony of two just witnesses, it behooveth her to remain single; then,
upon completion of the ﬁxed number of months, she is free to adopt the course of her choosing.
Such is the bidding of Him Who is mighty and powerful in His command.
Should resentment or antipathy arise between husband and wife, he is not to divorce her but
to bide in patience throughout the course of one whole year, that perchance the fragrance of
affection may be renewed between them. If, upon the completion of this period, their love hath
not returned, it is permissible for divorce to take place. God’s wisdom, verily, hath encompassed all
things. The Lord hath prohibited, in a Tablet inscribed by the Pen of His command, the practice to
which ye formerly had recourse when thrice ye had divorced a woman. This He hath done as a
favor on His part, that ye may be accounted among the thankful. He who hath divorced his wife
may choose, upon the passing of each month, to remarry her when there is mutual affection and
consent, so long as she hath not taken another husband. Should she have wed again, then, by this
other union, the separation is conﬁrmed and the matter is concluded unless, clearly, her
circumstances change. Thus hath the decree been inscribed with majesty in this glorious Tablet by
Him Who is the Dawning-place of Beauty.
If the wife accompany her husband on a journey, and differences arise between them on the
way, he is required to provide her with her expenses for one whole year, and either to return her
whence she came or to entrust her, together with the necessaries for her journey, to a dependable
person who is to escort her home. Thy Lord, verily, ordaineth as He pleaseth, by virtue of a
sovereignty that overshadoweth the peoples of the earth.
Should a woman be divorced in consequence of a proven act of inﬁdelity, she shall receive no
maintenance during her period of waiting. Thus hath the daystar of Our commandment shone
forth resplendent from the ﬁrmament of justice. Truly, the Lord loveth union and harmony and
abhorreth separation and divorce. Live ye one with another, O people, in radiance and joy. By My
life! All that are on earth shall pass away, while good deeds alone shall endure; to the truth of My
words God doth Himself bear witness. Compose your differences, O My servants; then heed ye the
admonition of Our Pen of Glory and follow not the arrogant and wayward.
Take heed lest the world beguile you as it beguiled the people who went before you! Observe
ye the statutes and precepts of your Lord, and walk ye in this Way which hath been laid out
before you in righteousness and truth. They who eschew iniquity and error, who adhere to virtue,
are, in the sight of the one true God, among the choicest of His creatures; their names are extolled
by the Concourse of the realms above, and by those who dwell in this Tabernacle which hath been
raised in the name of God.
It is forbidden you to trade in slaves, be they men or women. It is not for him who is himself a
servant to buy another of God’s servants, and this hath been prohibited in His Holy Tablet. Thus,
by His mercy, hath the commandment been recorded by the Pen of justice. Let no man exalt
himself above another; all are but bondslaves before the Lord, and all exemplify the truth that67
68
69
70
71
72

there is none other God but Him. He, verily, is the All-Wise, Whose wisdom encompasseth all
things.
Adorn yourselves with the raiment of goodly deeds. He whose deeds attain unto God’s good
pleasure is assuredly of the people of Bahá and is remembered before His throne. Assist ye the
Lord of all creation with works of righteousness, and also through wisdom and utterance. Thus,
indeed, have ye been commanded in most of the Tablets by Him Who is the All-Merciful. He,
truly, is cognizant of what I say. Let none contend with another, and let no soul slay another; this,
verily, is that which was forbidden you in a Book that hath lain concealed within the Tabernacle of
glory. What! Would ye kill him whom God hath quickened, whom He hath endowed with spirit
through a breath from Him? Grievous then would be your trespass before His throne! Fear God,
and lift not the hand of injustice and oppression to destroy what He hath Himself raised up; nay,
walk ye in the way of God, the True One. No sooner did the hosts of true knowledge appear,
bearing the standards of Divine utterance, than the tribes of the religions were put to ﬂight, save
only those who willed to drink from the stream of everlasting life in a Paradise created by the
breath of the All-Glorious.
God hath decreed, in token of His mercy unto His creatures, that semen is not unclean. Yield
thanks unto Him with joy and radiance, and follow not such as are remote from the Dawning-
place of His nearness. Arise ye, under all conditions, to render service to the Cause, for God will
assuredly assist you through the power of His sovereignty which overshadoweth the worlds.
Cleave ye unto the cord of reﬁnement with such tenacity as to allow no trace of dirt to be seen
upon your garments. Such is the injunction of One Who is sanctiﬁed above all reﬁnement. Whoso
falleth short of this standard with good reason shall incur no blame. God, verily, is the Forgiving,
the Merciful. Wash ye every soiled thing with water that hath undergone no alteration in any one
of the three respects; take heed not to use water that hath been altered through exposure to the
air or to some other agent. Be ye the very essence of cleanliness amongst mankind. This, truly, is
what your Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Wise, desireth for you.
God hath, likewise, as a bounty from His presence, abolished the concept of “uncleanness,”
whereby divers things and peoples have been held to be impure. He, of a certainty, is the Ever-
Forgiving, the Most Generous. Verily, all created things were immersed in the sea of puriﬁcation
when, on that ﬁrst day of Riḍván, We shed upon the whole of creation the splendors of Our most
excellent Names and Our most exalted Attributes. This, verily, is a token of My loving providence,
which hath encompassed all the worlds. Consort ye then with the followers of all religions, and
proclaim ye the Cause of your Lord, the Most Compassionate; this is the very crown of deeds, if ye
be of them who understand.
God hath enjoined upon you to observe the utmost cleanliness, to the extent of washing what
is soiled with dust, let alone with hardened dirt and similar deﬁlement. Fear Him, and be of those
who are pure. Should the garb of anyone be visibly sullied, his prayers shall not ascend to God, and
the celestial Concourse will turn away from him. Make use of rose water, and of pure perfume;
this, indeed, is that which God hath loved from the beginning that hath no beginning, in order that
there may be diffused from you what your Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Wise, desireth.
God hath relieved you of the ordinance laid down in the Bayán concerning the destruction of
books. We have permitted you to read such sciences as are proﬁtable unto you, not such as end in
idle disputation; better is this for you, if ye be of them that comprehend.
O kings of the earth! He Who is the sovereign Lord of all is come. The Kingdom is God’s, the
omnipotent Protector, the Self-Subsisting. Worship none but God, and, with radiant hearts, lift up
your faces unto your Lord, the Lord of all names. This is a Revelation to which whatever ye
possess can never be compared, could ye but know it.
We see you rejoicing in that which ye have amassed for others and shutting out yourselves
from the worlds which naught except My guarded Tablet can reckon. The treasures ye have laid
up have drawn you far away from your ultimate objective. This ill beseemeth you, could ye but
understand it. Wash from your hearts all earthly deﬁlements, and hasten to enter the Kingdom of
your Lord, the Creator of earth and heaven, Who caused the world to tremble and all its peoples to73
74
75
76
77
78
79

wail, except them that have renounced all things and clung to that which the Hidden Tablet hath
ordained.
This is the Day in which He Who held converse with God hath attained the light of the
Ancient of Days, and quaffed the pure waters of reunion from this Cup that hath caused the seas
to swell. Say: By the one true God! Sinai is circling round the Dayspring of Revelation, while from
the heights of the Kingdom the Voice of the Spirit of God is heard proclaiming: “Bestir yourselves,
ye proud ones of the earth, and hasten ye unto Him.” Carmel hath, in this Day, hastened in
longing adoration to attain His court, whilst from the heart of Zion there cometh the cry: “The
promise is fulﬁlled. That which had been announced in the holy Writ of God, the Most Exalted, the
Almighty, the Best-Beloved, is made manifest.”
O kings of the earth! The Most Great Law hath been revealed in this Spot, this scene of
transcendent splendor. Every hidden thing hath been brought to light by virtue of the Will of the
Supreme Ordainer, He Who hath ushered in the Last Hour, through Whom the Moon hath been
cleft, and every irrevocable decree expounded.
Ye are but vassals, O kings of the earth! He Who is the King of Kings hath appeared, arrayed
in His most wondrous glory, and is summoning you unto Himself, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting. Take heed lest pride deter you from recognizing the Source of Revelation, lest the
things of this world shut you out as by a veil from Him Who is the Creator of heaven. Arise, and
serve Him Who is the Desire of all nations, Who hath created you through a word from Him, and
ordained you to be, for all time, the emblems of His sovereignty.
By the righteousness of God! It is not Our wish to lay hands on your kingdoms. Our mission is
to seize and possess the hearts of men. Upon them the eyes of Bahá are fastened. To this
testiﬁeth the Kingdom of Names, could ye but comprehend it. Whoso followeth his Lord will
renounce the world and all that is therein; how much greater, then, must be the detachment of
Him Who holdeth so august a station! Forsake your palaces, and haste ye to gain admittance into
His Kingdom. This, indeed, will proﬁt you both in this world and in the next. To this testiﬁeth the
Lord of the realm on high, did ye but know it.
How great the blessedness that awaiteth the king who will arise to aid My Cause in My
kingdom, who will detach himself from all else but Me! Such a king is numbered with the
companions of the Crimson Ark—the Ark which God hath prepared for the people of Bahá. All
must glorify his name, must reverence his station, and aid him to unlock the cities with the keys
of My Name, the omnipotent Protector of all that inhabit the visible and invisible kingdoms. Such
a king is the very eye of mankind, the luminous ornament on the brow of creation, the
fountainhead of blessings unto the whole world. Offer up, O people of Bahá, your substance, nay
your very lives, for his assistance.
O Emperor of Austria! He Who is the Dayspring of God’s Light dwelt in the prison of ‘Akká at
the time when thou didst set forth to visit the Aqṣá Mosque. Thou passed Him by, and inquired
not about Him by Whom every house is exalted and every lofty gate unlocked. We, verily, made it
a place whereunto the world should turn, that they might remember Me, and yet thou hast
rejected Him Who is the Object of this remembrance, when He appeared with the Kingdom of
God, thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds. We have been with thee at all times, and found thee
clinging unto the Branch and heedless of the Root. Thy Lord, verily, is a witness unto what I say.
We grieved to see thee circle round Our Name, whilst unaware of Us, though We were before thy
face. Open thine eyes, that thou mayest behold this glorious Vision, and recognize Him Whom
thou invokest in the daytime and in the night season, and gaze on the Light that shineth above
this luminous Horizon.
Say: O King of Berlin! Give ear unto the Voice calling from this manifest Temple: “Verily,
there is none other God but Me, the Everlasting, the Peerless, the Ancient of Days.” Take heed lest
pride debar thee from recognizing the Dayspring of Divine Revelation, lest earthly desires shut
thee out, as by a veil, from the Lord of the Throne above and of the earth below. Thus counseleth
thee the Pen of the Most High. He, verily, is the Most Gracious, the All-Bountiful. Do thou
remember the one1 whose power transcended thy power, and whose station excelled thy station.
Where is he? Whither are gone the things he possessed? Take warning, and be not of them that80
81
82
83
84
85
86

are fast asleep. He it was who cast the Tablet of God behind him when We made known unto him
what the hosts of tyranny had caused Us to suffer. Wherefore, disgrace assailed him from all sides,
and he went down to dust in great loss. Think deeply, O King, concerning him, and concerning
them who, like unto thee, have conquered cities and ruled over men. The All-Merciful brought
them down from their palaces to their graves. Be warned, be of them who reﬂect.
We have asked nothing from you. For the sake of God We, verily, exhort you, and will be
patient as We have been patient in that which hath befallen Us at your hands, O concourse of
kings!
Hearken ye, O Rulers of America and the Presidents of the Republics therein, unto that which
the Dove is warbling on the Branch of Eternity: “There is none other God but Me, the Ever-
Abiding, the Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.” Adorn ye the temple of dominion with the ornament of
justice and of the fear of God, and its head with the crown of the remembrance of your Lord, the
Creator of the heavens. Thus counseleth you He Who is the Dayspring of Names, as bidden by
Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. The Promised One hath appeared in this gloriﬁed
Station, whereat all beings, both seen and unseen, have rejoiced. Take ye advantage of the Day of
God. Verily, to meet Him is better for you than all that whereon the sun shineth, could ye but
know it. O concourse of rulers! Give ear unto that which hath been raised from the Dayspring of
Grandeur: “Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Lord of Utterance, the All-Knowing.” Bind
ye the broken with the hands of justice, and crush the oppressor who ﬂourisheth with the rod of
the commandments of your Lord, the Ordainer, the All-Wise.
O people of Constantinople! Lo, from your midst We hear the baleful hooting of the owl. Hath
the drunkenness of passion laid hold upon you, or is it that ye are sunk in heedlessness? O Spot
that art situate on the shores of the two seas! The throne of tyranny hath, verily, been established
upon thee, and the ﬂame of hatred hath been kindled within thy bosom, in such wise that the
Concourse on high and they who circle around the Exalted Throne have wailed and lamented. We
behold in thee the foolish ruling over the wise, and darkness vaunting itself against the light.
Thou art indeed ﬁlled with manifest pride. Hath thine outward splendor made thee vainglorious?
By Him Who is the Lord of mankind! It shall soon perish, and thy daughters and thy widows and
all the kindreds that dwell within thee shall lament. Thus informeth thee the All-Knowing, the
All-Wise.
O banks of the Rhine! We have seen you covered with gore, inasmuch as the swords of
retribution were drawn against you; and ye shall have another turn. And We hear the
lamentations of Berlin, though she be today in conspicuous glory.
Let nothing grieve thee, O Land of Ṭá,2 for God hath chosen thee to be the source of the joy of
all mankind. He shall, if it be His Will, bless thy throne with one who will rule with justice, who
will gather together the ﬂock of God which the wolves have scattered. Such a ruler will, with joy
and gladness, turn his face towards, and extend his favors unto, the people of Bahá. He indeed is
accounted in the sight of God as a jewel among men. Upon him rest forever the glory of God and
the glory of all that dwell in the kingdom of His revelation.
Rejoice with great joy, for God hath made thee “the dayspring of His light,” inasmuch as
within thee was born the Manifestation of His Glory. Be thou glad for this name that hath been
conferred upon thee—a name through which the daystar of grace hath shed its splendor, through
which both earth and heaven have been illumined.
Erelong will the state of affairs within thee be changed, and the reins of power fall into the
hands of the people. Verily, thy Lord is the All-Knowing. His authority embraceth all things. Rest
thou assured in the gracious favor of thy Lord. The eye of His loving-kindness shall everlastingly
be directed towards thee. The day is approaching when thy agitation will have been transmuted
into peace and quiet calm. Thus hath it been decreed in the wondrous Book.
O Land of Khá! 3 We hear from thee the voice of heroes, raised in gloriﬁcation of thy Lord, the
All-Possessing, the Most Exalted. Blessed the day on which the banners of the divine Names shall
be upraised in the kingdom of creation in My Name, the All-Glorious. On that day the faithful
shall rejoice in the victory of God, and the disbelievers shall lament.87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94

None must contend with those who wield authority over the people; leave unto them that
which is theirs, and direct your attention to men’s hearts.
O Most Mighty Ocean! Sprinkle upon the nations that with which Thou hast been charged by
Him Who is the Sovereign of Eternity, and adorn the temples of all the dwellers of the earth with
the vesture of His laws through which all hearts will rejoice and all eyes be brightened.
Should anyone acquire one hundred mithqáls of gold, nineteen mithqáls thereof are God’s and
to be rendered unto Him, the Fashioner of earth and heaven. Take heed, O people, lest ye deprive
yourselves of so great a bounty. This We have commanded you, though We are well able to
dispense with you and with all who are in the heavens and on earth; in it there are beneﬁts and
wisdoms beyond the ken of anyone but God, the Omniscient, the All-Informed. Say: By this means
He hath desired to purify what ye possess and to enable you to draw nigh unto such stations as
none can comprehend save those whom God hath willed. He, in truth, is the Beneﬁcent, the
Gracious, the Bountiful. O people! Deal not faithlessly with the Right of God, nor, without His
leave, make free with its disposal. Thus hath His commandment been established in the holy
Tablets, and in this exalted Book. He who dealeth faithlessly with God shall in justice meet with
faithlessness himself; he, however, who acteth in accordance with God’s bidding shall receive a
blessing from the heaven of the bounty of his Lord, the Gracious, the Bestower, the Generous, the
Ancient of Days. He, verily, hath willed for you that which is yet beyond your knowledge, but
which shall be known to you when, after this ﬂeeting life, your souls soar heavenwards and the
trappings of your earthly joys are folded up. Thus admonisheth you He in Whose possession is
the Guarded Tablet.
Various petitions have come before Our throne from the believers, concerning laws from God,
the Lord of the seen and the unseen, the Lord of all worlds. We have, in consequence, revealed this
Holy Tablet and arrayed it with the mantle of His Law that haply the people may keep the
commandments of their Lord. Similar requests had been made of Us over several previous years
but We had, in Our wisdom, withheld Our Pen until, in recent days, letters arrived from a number
of the friends, and We have therefore responded, through the power of truth, with that which shall
quicken the hearts of men.
Say: O leaders of religion! Weigh not the Book of God with such standards and sciences as are
current amongst you, for the Book itself is the unerring Balance established amongst men. In this
most perfect Balance whatsoever the peoples and kindreds of the earth possess must be weighed,
while the measure of its weight should be tested according to its own standard, did ye but know it.
The eye of My loving-kindness weepeth sore over you, inasmuch as ye have failed to
recognize the One upon Whom ye have been calling in the daytime and in the night season, at
even and at morn. Advance, O people, with snow-white faces and radiant hearts, unto the blest
and crimson Spot, wherein the Sadratu’l-Muntahá is calling: “Verily, there is none other God beside
Me, the Omnipotent Protector, the Self-Subsisting!”
O ye leaders of religion! Who is the man amongst you that can rival Me in vision or insight?
Where is he to be found that dareth to claim to be My equal in utterance or wisdom? No, by My
Lord, the All-Merciful! All on the earth shall pass away; and this is the face of your Lord, the
Almighty, the Well-Beloved.
We have decreed, O people, that the highest and last end of all learning be the recognition of
Him Who is the Object of all knowledge; and yet, behold how ye have allowed your learning to
shut you out, as by a veil, from Him Who is the Dayspring of this Light, through Whom every
hidden thing hath been revealed. Could ye but discover the source whence the splendor of this
utterance is diffused, ye would cast away the peoples of the world and all that they possess, and
would draw nigh unto this most blessed Seat of glory.
Say: This, verily, is the heaven in which the Mother Book is treasured, could ye but
comprehend it. He it is Who hath caused the Rock to shout, and the Burning Bush to lift up its
voice, upon the Mount rising above the Holy Land, and proclaim: “The Kingdom is God’s, the
sovereign Lord of all, the All-Powerful, the Loving!”
We have not entered any school, nor read any of your dissertations. Incline your ears to the
words of this unlettered One, wherewith He summoneth you unto God, the Ever-Abiding. Better is95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104

this for you than all the treasures of the earth, could ye but comprehend it.
Whoso interpreteth what hath been sent down from the heaven of Revelation, and altereth its
evident meaning, he, verily, is of them that have perverted the Sublime Word of God, and is of the
lost ones in the Lucid Book.
It hath been enjoined upon you to pare your nails, to bathe yourselves each week in water
that covereth your bodies, and to clean yourselves with whatsoever ye have formerly employed.
Take heed lest through negligence ye fail to observe that which hath been prescribed unto you by
Him Who is the Incomparable, the Gracious. Immerse yourselves in clean water; it is not
permissible to bathe yourselves in water that hath already been used. See that ye approach not
the public pools of Persian baths; whoso maketh his way toward such baths will smell their fetid
odor ere he entereth therein. Shun them, O people, and be not of those who ignominiously accept
such vileness. In truth, they are as sinks of foulness and contamination, if ye be of them that
apprehend. Avoid ye likewise the malodorous pools in the courtyards of Persian homes, and be ye
of the pure and sanctiﬁed. Truly, We desire to behold you as manifestations of paradise on earth,
that there may be diffused from you such fragrance as shall rejoice the hearts of the favored of
God. If the bather, instead of entering the water, wash himself by pouring it upon his body, it shall
be better for him and shall absolve him of the need for bodily immersion. The Lord, verily, hath
willed, as a bounty from His presence, to make life easier for you that ye may be of those who are
truly thankful.
It is forbidden you to wed your fathers’ wives. We shrink, for very shame, from treating of the
subject of boys. Fear ye the Merciful, O peoples of the world! Commit not that which is forbidden
you in Our Holy Tablet, and be not of those who rove distractedly in the wilderness of their
desires.
To none is it permitted to mutter sacred verses before the public gaze as he walketh in the
street or marketplace; nay rather, if he wish to magnify the Lord, it behooveth him to do so in
such places as have been erected for this purpose, or in his own home. This is more in keeping
with sincerity and godliness. Thus hath the sun of Our commandment shone forth above the
horizon of Our utterance. Blessed, then, be those who do Our bidding.
Unto everyone hath been enjoined the writing of a will. The testator should head this
document with the adornment of the Most Great Name, bear witness therein unto the oneness of
God in the Dayspring of His Revelation, and make mention, as he may wish, of that which is
praiseworthy, so that it may be a testimony for him in the kingdoms of Revelation and Creation
and a treasure with his Lord, the Supreme Protector, the Faithful.
All Feasts have attained their consummation in the two Most Great Festivals, and in the two
other Festivals that fall on the twin days—the ﬁrst of the Most Great Festivals being those days
whereon the All-Merciful shed upon the whole of creation the effulgent glory of His most
excellent Names and His most exalted Attributes, and the second being that day on which We
raised up the One Who announced unto mankind the glad tidings of this Name, through which the
dead have been resurrected and all who are in the heavens and on earth have been gathered
together. Thus hath it been decreed by Him Who is the Ordainer, the Omniscient.
Happy the one who entereth upon the ﬁrst day of the month of Bahá, the day which God
hath consecrated to this Great Name. And blessed be he who evidenceth on this day the bounties
that God hath bestowed upon him; he, verily, is of those who show forth thanks to God through
actions betokening the Lord’s muniﬁcence which hath encompassed all the worlds. Say: This day,
verily, is the crown of all the months and the source thereof, the day on which the breath of life is
wafted over all created things. Great is the blessedness of him who greeteth it with radiance and
joy. We testify that he is, in truth, among those who are blissful.
Say: The Most Great Festival is, indeed, the King of Festivals. Call ye to mind, O people, the
bounty which God hath conferred upon you. Ye were sunk in slumber, and lo! He aroused you by
the reviving breezes of His Revelation, and made known unto you His manifest and undeviating
Path.
Resort ye, in times of sickness, to competent physicians; We have not set aside the use of
material means, rather have We conﬁrmed it through this Pen, which God hath made to be the105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113

Dawning-place of His shining and glorious Cause.
God had formerly laid upon each one of the believers the duty of offering before Our throne
priceless gifts from among his possessions. Now, in token of Our gracious favor, We have absolved
them of this obligation. He, of a truth, is the Most Generous, the All-Bountiful.
Blessed is he who, at the hour of dawn, centering his thoughts on God, occupied with His
remembrance, and supplicating His forgiveness, directeth his steps to the Mashriqu’l-Adhkár and,
entering therein, seateth himself in silence to listen to the verses of God, the Sovereign, the
Mighty, the All-Praised. Say: The Mashriqu’l-Adhkár is each and every building which hath been
erected in cities and villages for the celebration of My praise. Such is the name by which it hath
been designated before the throne of glory, were ye of those who understand.
They who recite the verses of the All-Merciful in the most melodious of tones will perceive in
them that with which the sovereignty of earth and heaven can never be compared. From them
they will inhale the divine fragrance of My worlds—worlds which today none can discern save
those who have been endowed with vision through this sublime, this beauteous Revelation. Say:
These verses draw hearts that are pure unto those spiritual worlds that can neither be expressed
in words nor intimated by allusion. Blessed be those who hearken.
Assist ye, O My people, My chosen servants who have arisen to make mention of Me among
My creatures and to exalt My Word throughout My realm. These, truly, are the stars of the heaven
of My loving providence and the lamps of My guidance unto all mankind. But he whose words
conﬂict with that which hath been sent down in My Holy Tablets is not of Me. Beware lest ye
follow any impious pretender. These Tablets are embellished with the seal of Him Who causeth
the dawn to appear, Who lifteth up His voice between the heavens and the earth. Lay hold on this
Sure Handle and on the Cord of My mighty and unassailable Cause.
The Lord hath granted leave to whosoever desireth it that he be instructed in the divers
tongues of the world that he may deliver the Message of the Cause of God throughout the East
and throughout the West, that he make mention of Him amidst the kindreds and peoples of the
world in such wise that hearts may revive and the moldering bone be quickened.
It is inadmissible that man, who hath been endowed with reason, should consume that which
stealeth it away. Nay, rather it behooveth him to comport himself in a manner worthy of the
human station, and not in accordance with the misdeeds of every heedless and wavering soul.
Adorn your heads with the garlands of trustworthiness and ﬁdelity, your hearts with the attire
of the fear of God, your tongues with absolute truthfulness, your bodies with the vesture of
courtesy. These are in truth seemly adornings unto the temple of man, if ye be of them that
reﬂect. Cling, O ye people of Bahá, to the cord of servitude unto God, the True One, for thereby
your stations shall be made manifest, your names written and preserved, your ranks raised and
your memory exalted in the Preserved Tablet. Beware lest the dwellers on earth hinder you from
this glorious and exalted station. Thus have We exhorted you in most of Our Epistles and now in
this, Our Holy Tablet, above which hath beamed the Daystar of the Laws of the Lord, your God,
the Powerful, the All-Wise.
When the ocean of My presence hath ebbed and the Book of My Revelation is ended, turn
your faces towards Him Whom God hath purposed, Who hath branched from this Ancient Root.
Consider the pettiness of men’s minds. They ask for that which injureth them, and cast away
the thing that proﬁteth them. They are, indeed, of those that are far astray. We ﬁnd some men
desiring liberty, and priding themselves therein. Such men are in the depths of ignorance.
Liberty must, in the end, lead to sedition, whose ﬂames none can quench. Thus warneth you
He Who is the Reckoner, the All-Knowing. Know ye that the embodiment of liberty and its symbol
is the animal. That which beseemeth man is submission unto such restraints as will protect him
from his own ignorance, and guard him against the harm of the mischief maker. Liberty causeth
man to overstep the bounds of propriety, and to infringe on the dignity of his station. It debaseth
him to the level of extreme depravity and wickedness.
Regard men as a ﬂock of sheep that need a shepherd for their protection. This, verily, is the
truth, the certain truth. We approve of liberty in certain circumstances, and refuse to sanction it in
others. We, verily, are the All-Knowing.114
115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124

Say: True liberty consisteth in man’s submission unto My commandments, little as ye know
it. Were men to observe that which We have sent down unto them from the Heaven of Revelation,
they would, of a certainty, attain unto perfect liberty. Happy is the man that hath apprehended
the Purpose of God in whatever He hath revealed from the Heaven of His Will that pervadeth all
created things. Say: The liberty that proﬁteth you is to be found nowhere except in complete
servitude unto God, the Eternal Truth. Whoso hath tasted of its sweetness will refuse to barter it
for all the dominion of earth and heaven.
In the Bayán it had been forbidden you to ask Us questions. The Lord hath now relieved you
of this prohibition, that ye may be free to ask what you need to ask, but not such idle questions as
those on which the men of former times were wont to dwell. Fear God, and be ye of the righteous!
Ask ye that which shall be of proﬁt to you in the Cause of God and His dominion, for the portals
of His tender compassion have been opened before all who dwell in heaven and on earth.
The number of months in a year, appointed in the Book of God, is nineteen. Of these the ﬁrst
hath been adorned with this Name which overshadoweth the whole of creation.
The Lord hath decreed that the dead should be interred in cofﬁns made of crystal, of hard,
resistant stone, or of wood that is both ﬁne and durable, and that graven rings should be placed
upon their ﬁngers. He, verily, is the Supreme Ordainer, the One apprised of all.
The inscription on these rings should read, for men: “Unto God belongeth all that is in the
heavens and on the earth and whatsoever is between them, and He, in truth, hath knowledge of
all things”; and for women: “Unto God belongeth the dominion of the heavens and the earth and
whatsoever is between them, and He, in truth, is potent over all things.” These are the verses that
were revealed aforetime, but lo, the Point of the Bayán now calleth out, exclaiming, “O Best-
Beloved of the worlds! Reveal Thou in their stead such words as will waft the fragrance of Thy
gracious favors over all mankind. We have announced unto everyone that one single word from
Thee excelleth all that hath been sent down in the Bayán. Thou, indeed, hast power to do what
pleaseth Thee. Deprive not Thy servants of the overﬂowing bounties of the ocean of Thy mercy!
Thou, in truth, art He Whose grace is inﬁnite.” Behold, We have hearkened to His call, and now
fulﬁll His wish. He, verily, is the Best-Beloved, the Answerer of prayers. If the following verse,
which hath at this moment been sent down by God, be engraved upon the burial rings of both men
and women, it shall be better for them; We, of a certainty, are the Supreme Ordainer: “I came forth
from God, and return unto Him, detached from all save Him, holding fast to His Name, the
Merciful, the Compassionate.” Thus doth the Lord single out whomsoever He desireth for a bounty
from His presence. He is, in very truth, the God of might and power.
The Lord hath decreed, moreover, that the deceased should be enfolded in ﬁve sheets of silk or
cotton. For those whose means are limited a single sheet of either fabric will sufﬁce. Thus hath it
been ordained by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. It is forbidden you to transport
the body of the deceased a greater distance than one hour’s journey from the city; rather should it
be interred, with radiance and serenity, in a nearby place.
God hath removed the restrictions on travel that had been imposed in the Bayán. He, verily, is
the Unconstrained; He doeth as He pleaseth and ordaineth whatsoever He willeth.
O peoples of the world! Give ear unto the call of Him Who is the Lord of Names, Who
proclaimeth unto you from His habitation in the Most Great Prison: “Verily, no God is there but
Me, the Powerful, the Mighty, the All-Subduing, the Most Exalted, the Omniscient, the All-Wise.”
In truth, there is no God but Him, the Omnipotent Ruler of the worlds. Were it His Will, He would,
through but a single word proceeding from His presence, lay hold on all mankind. Beware lest ye
hesitate in your acceptance of this Cause—a Cause before which the Concourse on high and the
dwellers of the Cities of Names have bowed down. Fear God, and be not of those who are shut out
as by a veil. Burn ye away the veils with the ﬁre of My love, and dispel ye the mists of vain
imaginings by the power of this Name through which We have subdued the entire creation.
Raise up and exalt the two Houses in the Twin Hallowed Spots, and the other sites wherein
the throne of your Lord, the All-Merciful, hath been established. Thus commandeth you the Lord
of every understanding heart.125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133

Be watchful lest the concerns and preoccupations of this world prevent you from observing
that which hath been enjoined upon you by Him Who is the Mighty, the Faithful. Be ye the
embodiments of such steadfastness amidst mankind that ye will not be kept back from God by the
doubts of those who disbelieved in Him when He manifested Himself, invested with a mighty
sovereignty. Take heed lest ye be prevented by aught that hath been recorded in the Book from
hearkening unto this, the Living Book, Who proclaimeth the truth: “Verily, there is no God but Me,
the Most Excellent, the All-Praised.” Look ye with the eye of equity upon Him Who hath
descended from the heaven of Divine will and power, and be not of those who act unjustly.
Call then to mind these words which have streamed forth, in tribute to this Revelation, from
the Pen of Him Who was My Herald, and consider what the hands of the oppressors have wrought
throughout My days. Truly they are numbered with the lost. He said: “Should ye attain the
presence of Him Whom We shall make manifest, beseech ye God, in His bounty, to grant that He
might deign to seat Himself upon your couches, for that act in itself would confer upon you
matchless and surpassing honor. Should He drink a cup of water in your homes, this would be of
greater consequence for you than your proffering unto every soul, nay unto every created thing,
the water of its very life. Know this, O ye My servants!”
Such are the words with which My Forerunner hath extolled My Being, could ye but
understand. Whoso reﬂecteth upon these verses, and realizeth what hidden pearls have been
enshrined within them, will, by the righteousness of God, perceive the fragrance of the All-
Merciful wafting from the direction of this Prison and will, with his whole heart, hasten unto Him
with such ardent longing that the hosts of earth and heaven would be powerless to deter him. Say:
This is a Revelation around which every proof and testimony doth circle. Thus hath it been sent
down by your Lord, the God of Mercy, if ye be of them that judge aright. Say: This is the very soul
of all Scriptures which hath been breathed into the Pen of the Most High, causing all created
beings to be dumbfounded, save only those who have been enraptured by the gentle breezes of My
loving-kindness and the sweet savors of My bounties which have pervaded the whole of creation.
O people of the Bayán! Fear ye the Most Merciful and consider what He hath revealed in
another passage. He said: “The Qiblih is indeed He Whom God will make manifest; whenever He
moveth, it moveth, until He shall come to rest.” Thus was it set down by the Supreme Ordainer
when He desired to make mention of this Most Great Beauty. Meditate on this, O people, and be
not of them that wander distraught in the wilderness of error. If ye reject Him at the bidding of
your idle fancies, where then is the Qiblih to which ye will turn, O assemblage of the heedless?
Ponder ye this verse, and judge equitably before God, that haply ye may glean the pearls of
mysteries from the ocean that surgeth in My Name, the All-Glorious, the Most High.
Let none, in this Day, hold fast to aught save that which hath been manifested in this
Revelation. Such is the decree of God, aforetime and hereafter—a decree wherewith the Scriptures
of the Messengers of old have been adorned. Such is the admonition of the Lord, aforetime and
hereafter—an admonition wherewith the preamble to the Book of Life hath been embellished, did
ye but perceive it. Such is the commandment of the Lord, aforetime and hereafter; beware lest ye
choose instead the part of ignominy and abasement. Naught shall avail you in this Day but God,
nor is there any refuge to ﬂee to save Him, the Omniscient, the All-Wise. Whoso hath known Me
hath known the Goal of all desire, and whoso hath turned unto Me hath turned unto the Object of
all adoration. Thus hath it been set forth in the Book, and thus hath it been decreed by God, the
Lord of all worlds. To read but one of the verses of My Revelation is better than to peruse the
Scriptures of both the former and latter generations. This is the Utterance of the All-Merciful,
would that ye had ears to hear! Say: This is the essence of knowledge, did ye but understand.
And now consider what hath been revealed in yet another passage, that perchance ye may
forsake your own concepts and set your faces towards God, the Lord of being. He4 hath said: “It is
unlawful to enter into marriage save with a believer in the Bayán. Should only one party to a
marriage embrace this Cause, his or her possessions will become unlawful to the other, until such
time as the latter hath converted. This law, however, will only take effect after the exaltation of
the Cause of Him Whom We shall manifest in truth, or of that which hath already been made
manifest in justice. Ere this, ye are at liberty to enter into wedlock as ye wish, that haply by this134
135
136
137
138
139

means ye may exalt the Cause of God.” Thus hath the Nightingale sung with sweet melody upon
the celestial bough, in praise of its Lord, the All-Merciful. Well is it with them that hearken.
O people of the Bayán, I adjure you by your Lord, the God of mercy, to look with the eye of
fairness upon this utterance which hath been sent down through the power of truth, and not to be
of those who see the testimony of God yet reject and deny it. They, in truth, are of those who will
assuredly perish. The Point of the Bayán hath explicitly made mention in this verse of the
exaltation of My Cause before His own Cause; unto this will testify every just and understanding
mind. As ye can readily witness in this day, its exaltation is such as none can deny save those
whose eyes are drunken in this mortal life and whom a humiliating chastisement awaiteth in the
life to come.
Say: By the righteousness of God! I, verily, am His5 Best-Beloved; and at this moment He
listeneth to these verses descending from the Heaven of Revelation and bewaileth the wrongs ye
have committed in these days. Fear God, and join not with the aggressor. Say: O people, should ye
choose to disbelieve in Him,6 refrain at least from rising up against Him. By God! Sufﬁcient are
the hosts of tyranny that are leagued against Him!
Verily, He7 revealed certain laws so that, in this Dispensation, the Pen of the Most High
might have no need to move in aught but the gloriﬁcation of His own transcendent Station and
His most effulgent Beauty. Since, however, We have wished to evidence Our bounty unto you, We
have, through the power of truth, set forth these laws with clarity and mitigated what We desire
you to observe. He, verily, is the Muniﬁcent, the Generous.
He8 hath previously made known unto you that which would be uttered by this Dayspring of
Divine wisdom. He said, and He speaketh the truth: “He9 is the One Who will under all conditions
proclaim: ‘Verily, there is none other God besides Me, the One, the Incomparable, the Omniscient,
the All-Informed.’” This is a station which God hath assigned exclusively to this sublime, this
unique and wondrous Revelation. This is a token of His bounteous favor, if ye be of them who
comprehend, and a sign of His irresistible decree. This is His Most Great Name, His Most Exalted
Word, and the Dayspring of His Most Excellent Titles, if ye could understand. Nay more, through
Him every Fountainhead, every Dawning-place of Divine guidance is made manifest. Reﬂect, O
people, on that which hath been sent down in truth; ponder thereon, and be not of the
transgressors.
Consort with all religions with amity and concord, that they may inhale from you the sweet
fragrance of God. Beware lest amidst men the ﬂame of foolish ignorance overpower you. All things
proceed from God and unto Him they return. He is the source of all things and in Him all things
are ended.
Take heed that ye enter no house in the absence of its owner, except with his permission.
Comport yourselves with propriety under all conditions, and be not numbered with the wayward.
It hath been enjoined upon you to purify your means of sustenance and other such things
through payment of Zakát. Thus hath it been prescribed in this exalted Tablet by Him Who is the
Revealer of verses. We shall, if it be God’s will and purpose, set forth erelong the measure of its
assessment. He, verily, expoundeth whatsoever He desireth by virtue of His own knowledge, and
He, of a truth, is Omniscient and All-Wise.
It is unlawful to beg, and it is forbidden to give to him who beggeth. All have been enjoined to
earn a living, and as for those who are incapable of doing so, it is incumbent on the Deputies of
God and on the wealthy to make adequate provision for them. Keep ye the statutes and
commandments of God; nay, guard them as ye would your very eyes, and be not of those who
suffer grievous loss.
Ye have been forbidden in the Book of God to engage in contention and conﬂict, to strike
another, or to commit similar acts whereby hearts and souls may be saddened. A ﬁne of nineteen
mithqáls of gold had formerly been prescribed by Him Who is the Lord of all mankind for anyone
who was the cause of sadness to another; in this Dispensation, however, He hath absolved you
thereof and exhorteth you to show forth righteousness and piety. Such is the commandment
which He hath enjoined upon you in this resplendent Tablet. Wish not for others what ye wish
not for yourselves; fear God, and be not of the prideful. Ye are all created out of water, and unto140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148

dust shall ye return. Reﬂect upon the end that awaiteth you, and walk not in the ways of the
oppressor. Give ear unto the verses of God which He Who is the sacred Lote-Tree reciteth unto
you. They are assuredly the infallible balance, established by God, the Lord of this world and the
next. Through them the soul of man is caused to wing its ﬂight towards the Dayspring of
Revelation, and the heart of every true believer is suffused with light. Such are the laws which
God hath enjoined upon you, such His commandments prescribed unto you in His Holy Tablet;
obey them with joy and gladness, for this is best for you, did ye but know.
Recite ye the verses of God every morn and eventide. Whoso faileth to recite them hath not
been faithful to the Covenant of God and His Testament, and whoso turneth away from these
holy verses in this Day is of those who throughout eternity have turned away from God. Fear ye
God, O My servants, one and all. Pride not yourselves on much reading of the verses or on a
multitude of pious acts by night and day; for were a man to read a single verse with joy and
radiance it would be better for him than to read with lassitude all the Holy Books of God, the Help
in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Read ye the sacred verses in such measure that ye be not overcome by
languor and despondency. Lay not upon your souls that which will weary them and weigh them
down, but rather what will lighten and uplift them, so that they may soar on the wings of the
Divine verses towards the Dawning-place of His manifest signs; this will draw you nearer to God,
did ye but comprehend.
Teach your children the verses revealed from the heaven of majesty and power, so that, in
most melodious tones, they may recite the Tablets of the All-Merciful in the alcoves within the
Mashriqu’l-Adhkárs. Whoever hath been transported by the rapture born of adoration for My
Name, the Most Compassionate, will recite the verses of God in such wise as to captivate the
hearts of those yet wrapped in slumber. Well is it with him who hath quaffed the Mystic Wine of
everlasting life from the utterance of his merciful Lord in My Name—a Name through which every
lofty and majestic mountain hath been reduced to dust.
Ye have been enjoined to renew the furnishings of your homes after the passing of each
nineteen years; thus hath it been ordained by One Who is Omniscient and All-Perceiving. He,
verily, is desirous of reﬁnement, both for you yourselves and for all that ye possess; lay not aside
the fear of God and be not of the negligent. Whoso ﬁndeth that his means are insufﬁcient to this
purpose hath been excused by God, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bounteous.
Wash your feet once every day in summer, and once every three days during winter.
Should anyone wax angry with you, respond to him with gentleness; and should anyone
upbraid you, forbear to upbraid him in return, but leave him to himself and put your trust in God,
the omnipotent Avenger, the Lord of might and justice.
Ye have been prohibited from making use of pulpits. Whoso wisheth to recite unto you the
verses of his Lord, let him sit on a chair placed upon a dais, that he may make mention of God, his
Lord, and the Lord of all mankind. It is pleasing to God that ye should seat yourselves on chairs
and benches as a mark of honor for the love ye bear for Him and for the Manifestation of His
glorious and resplendent Cause.
Gambling and the use of opium have been forbidden unto you. Eschew them both, O people,
and be not of those who transgress. Beware of using any substance that induceth sluggishness and
torpor in the human temple and inﬂicteth harm upon the body. We, verily, desire for you naught
save what shall proﬁt you, and to this bear witness all created things, had ye but ears to hear.
Whensoever ye be invited to a banquet or festive occasion, respond with joy and gladness, and
whoever fulﬁlleth his promise will be safe from reproof. This is a Day on which each of God’s
wise decrees hath been expounded.
Behold, the “mystery of the Great Reversal in the Sign of the Sovereign” hath now been made
manifest. Well is it with him whom God hath aided to recognize the “Six” raised up by virtue of
this “Upright Alif”; he, verily, is of those whose faith is true. How many the outwardly pious who
have turned away, and how many the wayward who have drawn nigh, exclaiming: “All praise be
to Thee, O Thou the Desire of the worlds!” In truth, it is in the hand of God to give what He
willeth to whomsoever He willeth, and to withhold what He pleaseth from whomsoever He may
wish. He knoweth the inner secrets of the hearts and the meaning hidden in a mocker’s wink.149
150
151
152
153
154
155
156
157

How many an embodiment of heedlessness who came unto Us with purity of heart have We
established upon the seat of Our acceptance; and how many an exponent of wisdom have We in
all justice consigned to the ﬁre. We are, in truth, the One to judge. He it is Who is the
manifestation of “God doeth whatsoever He pleaseth,” and abideth upon the throne of “He
ordaineth whatsoever He chooseth.”
Blessed is the one who discovereth the fragrance of inner meanings from the traces of this
Pen through whose movement the breezes of God are wafted over the entire creation, and through
whose stillness the very essence of tranquillity appeareth in the realm of being. Gloriﬁed be the
All-Merciful, the Revealer of so inestimable a bounty. Say: Because He bore injustice, justice hath
appeared on earth, and because He accepted abasement, the majesty of God hath shone forth
amidst mankind.
It hath been forbidden you to carry arms unless essential, and permitted you to attire
yourselves in silk. The Lord hath relieved you, as a bounty on His part, of the restrictions that
formerly applied to clothing and to the trim of the beard. He, verily, is the Ordainer, the
Omniscient. Let there be naught in your demeanor of which sound and upright minds would
disapprove, and make not yourselves the playthings of the ignorant. Well is it with him who hath
adorned himself with the vesture of seemly conduct and a praiseworthy character. He is assuredly
reckoned with those who aid their Lord through distinctive and outstanding deeds.
Promote ye the development of the cities of God and His countries, and glorify Him therein in
the joyous accents of His well-favored ones. In truth, the hearts of men are ediﬁed through the
power of the tongue, even as houses and cities are built up by the hand and other means. We have
assigned to every end a means for its accomplishment; avail yourselves thereof, and place your
trust and conﬁdence in God, the Omniscient, the All-Wise.
Blessed is the man that hath acknowledged his belief in God and in His signs, and recognized
that “He shall not be asked of His doings.” Such a recognition hath been made by God the
ornament of every belief and its very foundation. Upon it must depend the acceptance of every
goodly deed. Fasten your eyes upon it, that haply the whisperings of the rebellious may not cause
you to slip.
Were He to decree as lawful the thing which from time immemorial had been forbidden, and
forbid that which had, at all times, been regarded as lawful, to none is given the right to question
His authority. Whoso will hesitate, though it be for less than a moment, should be regarded as a
transgressor.
Whoso hath not recognized this sublime and fundamental verity, and hath failed to attain this
most exalted station, the winds of doubt will agitate him, and the sayings of the inﬁdels will
distract his soul. He that hath acknowledged this principle will be endowed with the most perfect
constancy. All honor to this all-glorious station, the remembrance of which adorneth every exalted
Tablet. Such is the teaching which God bestoweth on you, a teaching that will deliver you from all
manner of doubt and perplexity, and enable you to attain unto salvation in both this world and the
next. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Bountiful. He it is Who hath sent forth the
Messengers, and sent down the Books to proclaim “There is none other God but Me, the Almighty,
the All-Wise.”
O Land of Káf and Rá! 10 We, verily, behold thee in a state displeasing unto God, and see
proceeding from thee that which is inscrutable to anyone save Him, the Omniscient, the All-
Informed; and We perceive that which secretly and stealthily diffuseth from thee. With Us is the
knowledge of all things, inscribed in a lucid Tablet. Sorrow not for that which hath befallen thee.
Erelong will God raise up within thee men endued with mighty valor, who will magnify My Name
with such constancy that neither will they be deterred by the evil suggestions of the divines, nor
will they be kept back by the insinuations of the sowers of doubt. With their own eyes will they
behold God, and with their own lives will they render Him victorious. These, truly, are of those
who are steadfast.
O concourse of divines! When My verses were sent down, and My clear tokens were revealed,
We found you behind the veils. This, verily, is a strange thing. Ye glory in My Name, yet ye
recognized Me not at the time your Lord, the All-Merciful, appeared amongst you with proof and158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165

testimony. We have rent the veils asunder. Beware lest ye shut out the people by yet another veil.
Pluck asunder the chains of vain imaginings, in the name of the Lord of all men, and be not of the
deceitful. Should ye turn unto God and embrace His Cause, spread not disorder within it, and
measure not the Book of God with your selﬁsh desires. This, verily, is the counsel of God
aforetime and hereafter, and to this God’s witnesses and chosen ones, yea, each and every one of
Us, do solemnly attest.
Call ye to mind the shaykh whose name was Muḥammad-Ḥasan, who ranked among the
most learned divines of his day. When the True One was made manifest, this shaykh, along with
others of his calling, rejected Him, while a sifter of wheat and barley accepted Him and turned
unto the Lord. Though he was occupied both night and day in setting down what he conceived to
be the laws and ordinances of God, yet when He Who is the Unconstrained appeared, not one
letter thereof availed him, or he would not have turned away from a Countenance that hath
illumined the faces of the well-favored of the Lord. Had ye believed in God when He revealed
Himself, the people would not have turned aside from Him, nor would the things ye witness today
have befallen Us. Fear God, and be not of the heedless.
Beware lest any name debar you from Him Who is the Possessor of all names, or any word
shut you out from this Remembrance of God, this Source of Wisdom amongst you. Turn unto God
and seek His protection, O concourse of divines, and make not of yourselves a veil between Me
and My creatures. Thus doth your Lord admonish you, and command you to be just, lest your
works should come to naught and ye yourselves be oblivious of your plight. Shall he who denieth
this Cause be able to vindicate the truth of any cause throughout creation? Nay, by Him Who is
the Fashioner of the universe! Yet the people are wrapped in a palpable veil. Say: Through this
Cause the daystar of testimony hath dawned, and the luminary of proof hath shed its radiance
upon all that dwell on earth. Fear God, O men of insight, and be not of those who disbelieve in Me.
Take heed lest the word “Prophet” withhold you from this Most Great Announcement, or any
reference to “Vicegerency” debar you from the sovereignty of Him Who is the Vicegerent of God,
which overshadoweth all the worlds. Every name hath been created by His Word, and every cause
is dependent on His irresistible, His mighty and wondrous Cause. Say: This is the Day of God, the
Day on which naught shall be mentioned save His own Self, the omnipotent Protector of all
worlds. This is the Cause that hath made all your superstitions and idols to tremble.
We, verily, see amongst you him who taketh hold of the Book of God and citeth from it proofs
and arguments wherewith to repudiate his Lord, even as the followers of every other Faith sought
reasons in their Holy Books for refuting Him Who is the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Say:
God, the True One, is My witness that neither the Scriptures of the world, nor all the books and
writings in existence, shall, in this Day, avail you aught without this, the Living Book, Who
proclaimeth in the midmost heart of creation: “Verily, there is none other God but Me, the All-
Knowing, the All-Wise.”
O concourse of divines! Beware lest ye be the cause of strife in the land, even as ye were the
cause of the repudiation of the Faith in its early days. Gather the people around this Word that
hath made the pebbles to cry out: “The Kingdom is God’s, the Dawning-place of all signs!” Thus
doth your Lord admonish you, as a bounty on His part; He, of a truth, is the Ever-Forgiving, the
Most Generous.
Call ye to mind Karím, and how, when We summoned him unto God, he waxed disdainful,
prompted by his own desires; yet We had sent him that which was a solace to the eye of proof in
the world of being and the fulﬁllment of God’s testimony to all the denizens of earth and heaven.
As a token of the grace of Him Who is the All-Possessing, the Most High, We bade him embrace
the Truth. But he turned away until, as an act of justice from God, angels of wrath laid hold upon
him. Unto this We truly were a witness.
Tear the veils asunder in such wise that the inmates of the Kingdom will hear them being
rent. This is the command of God, in days gone by and for those to come. Blessed the man that
observeth that whereunto he was bidden, and woe betide the negligent.
We, of a certainty, have had no purpose in this earthly realm save to make God manifest and
to reveal His sovereignty; sufﬁcient unto Me is God for a witness. We, of a certainty, have had no166
167
168
169
170
171
172

intent in the celestial Kingdom but to exalt His Cause and glorify His praise; sufﬁcient unto Me is
God for a protector. We, of a certainty, have had no desire in the Dominion on high except to extol
God and what hath been sent down by Him; sufﬁcient unto Me is God for a helper.
Happy are ye, O ye the learned ones in Bahá. By the Lord! Ye are the billows of the Most
Mighty Ocean, the stars of the ﬁrmament of Glory, the standards of triumph waving betwixt earth
and heaven. Ye are the manifestations of steadfastness amidst men and the daysprings of Divine
Utterance to all that dwell on earth. Well is it with him that turneth unto you, and woe betide the
froward. This day, it behooveth whoso hath quaffed the Mystic Wine of everlasting life from the
Hands of the loving-kindness of the Lord his God, the Merciful, to pulsate even as the throbbing
artery in the body of mankind, that through him may be quickened the world and every crumbling
bone.
O people of the world! When the Mystic Dove will have winged its ﬂight from its Sanctuary
of Praise and sought its far-off goal, its hidden habitation, refer ye whatsoever ye understand not
in the Book to Him Who hath branched from this mighty Stock.
O Pen of the Most High! Move Thou upon the Tablet at the bidding of Thy Lord, the Creator
of the Heavens, and tell of the time when He Who is the Dayspring of Divine Unity purposed to
direct His steps towards the School of Transcendent Oneness; haply the pure in heart may gain
thereby a glimpse, be it as small as a needle’s eye, of the mysteries of Thy Lord, the Almighty, the
Omniscient, that lie concealed behind the veils. Say: We, indeed, set foot within the School of inner
meaning and explanation when all created things were unaware. We saw the words sent down by
Him Who is the All-Merciful, and We accepted the verses of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting, which He11 presented unto Us, and hearkened unto that which He had solemnly
afﬁrmed in the Tablet. This We assuredly did behold. And We assented to His wish through Our
behest, for truly We are potent to command.
O people of the Bayán! We, verily, set foot within the School of God when ye lay slumbering;
and We perused the Tablet while ye were fast asleep. By the one true God! We read the Tablet ere
it was revealed, while ye were unaware, and We had perfect knowledge of the Book when ye
were yet unborn. These words are to your measure, not to God’s. To this testiﬁeth that which is
enshrined within His knowledge, if ye be of them that comprehend; and to this the tongue of the
Almighty doth bear witness, if ye be of those who understand. I swear by God, were We to lift the
veil, ye would be dumbfounded.
Take heed that ye dispute not idly concerning the Almighty and His Cause, for lo! He hath
appeared amongst you invested with a Revelation so great as to encompass all things, whether of
the past or of the future. Were We to address Our theme by speaking in the language of the
inmates of the Kingdom, We would say: “In truth, God created that School ere He created heaven
and earth, and We entered it before the letters B and E were joined and knit together.” Such is the
language of Our servants in Our Kingdom; consider what the tongue of the dwellers of Our exalted
Dominion would utter, for We have taught them Our knowledge and have revealed to them
whatever had lain hidden in God’s wisdom. Imagine then what the Tongue of Might and Grandeur
would utter in His All-Glorious Abode!
This is not a Cause which may be made a plaything for your idle fancies, nor is it a ﬁeld for
the foolish and faint of heart. By God, this is the arena of insight and detachment, of vision and
upliftment, where none may spur on their chargers save the valiant horsemen of the Merciful,
who have severed all attachment to the world of being. These, truly, are they that render God
victorious on earth, and are the dawning-places of His sovereign might amidst mankind.
Beware lest aught that hath been revealed in the Bayán should keep you from your Lord, the
Most Compassionate. God is My witness that the Bayán was sent down for no other purpose than
to celebrate My praise, did ye but know! In it the pure in heart will ﬁnd only the fragrance of My
love, only My Name that overshadoweth all that seeth and is seen. Say: Turn ye, O people, unto
that which hath proceeded from My Most Exalted Pen. Should ye inhale therefrom the fragrance
of God, set not yourselves against Him, nor deny yourselves a portion of His gracious favor and
His manifold bestowals. Thus doth your Lord admonish you; He, verily, is the Counselor, the
Omniscient.173
174
175
176
177
178
179

Whatsoever ye understand not in the Bayán, ask it of God, your Lord and the Lord of your
forefathers. Should He so desire, He will expound for you that which is revealed therein, and
disclose to you the pearls of Divine knowledge and wisdom that lie concealed within the ocean of
its words. He, verily, is supreme over all names; no God is there but Him, the Help in Peril, the
Self-Subsisting.
The world’s equilibrium hath been upset through the vibrating inﬂuence of this most great,
this new World Order. Mankind’s ordered life hath been revolutionized through the agency of this
unique, this wondrous System—the like of which mortal eyes have never witnessed.
Immerse yourselves in the ocean of My words, that ye may unravel its secrets, and discover
all the pearls of wisdom that lie hid in its depths. Take heed that ye do not vacillate in your
determination to embrace the truth of this Cause—a Cause through which the potentialities of the
might of God have been revealed, and His sovereignty established. With faces beaming with joy,
hasten ye unto Him. This is the changeless Faith of God, eternal in the past, eternal in the future.
Let him that seeketh, attain it; and as to him that hath refused to seek it—verily, God is Self-
Sufﬁcient, above any need of His creatures.
Say: This is the infallible Balance which the Hand of God is holding, in which all who are in
the heavens and all who are on the earth are weighed, and their fate determined, if ye be of them
that believe and recognize this truth. Say: This is the Most Great Testimony, by which the validity
of every proof throughout the ages hath been established, would that ye might be assured thereof.
Say: Through it the poor have been enriched, the learned enlightened, and the seekers enabled to
ascend unto the presence of God. Beware lest ye make it a cause of dissension amongst you. Be
ye as ﬁrmly settled as the immovable mountain in the Cause of your Lord, the Mighty, the Loving.
Say: O source of perversion! Abandon thy willful blindness, and speak forth the truth amidst
the people. I swear by God that I have wept for thee to see thee following thy selﬁsh passions and
renouncing Him Who fashioned thee and brought thee into being. Call to mind the tender mercy
of thy Lord, and remember how We nurtured thee by day and by night for service to the Cause.
Fear God, and be thou of the truly repentant. Granted that the people were confused about thy
station, is it conceivable that thou thyself art similarly confused? Tremble before thy Lord and
recall the days when thou didst stand before Our throne, and didst write down the verses that We
dictated unto thee—verses sent down by God, the Omnipotent Protector, the Lord of might and
power. Beware lest the ﬁre of thy presumptuousness debar thee from attaining to God’s Holy
Court. Turn unto Him, and fear not because of thy deeds. He, in truth, forgiveth whomsoever He
desireth as a bounty on His part; no God is there but Him, the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Bounteous.
We admonish thee solely for the sake of God. Shouldst thou accept this counsel, thou wilt have
acted to thine own behoof; and shouldst thou reject it, thy Lord, verily, can well dispense with
thee, and with all those who, in manifest delusion, have followed thee. Behold! God hath laid hold
on him who led thee astray. Return unto God, humble, submissive and lowly; verily, He will put
away from thee thy sins, for thy Lord, of a certainty, is the Forgiving, the Mighty, the All-Merciful.
This is the Counsel of God; would that thou mightest heed it! This is the Bounty of God;
would that thou mightest receive it! This is the Utterance of God; if only thou wouldst apprehend
it! This is the Treasure of God; if only thou couldst understand!
This is a Book which hath become the Lamp of the Eternal unto the world, and His straight,
undeviating Path amidst the peoples of the earth. Say: This is the Dayspring of Divine knowledge,
if ye be of them that understand, and the Dawning-place of God’s commandments, if ye be of
those who comprehend.
Burden not an animal with more than it can bear. We, truly, have prohibited such treatment
through a most binding interdiction in the Book. Be ye the embodiments of justice and fairness
amidst all creation.
Should anyone unintentionally take another’s life, it is incumbent upon him to render to the
family of the deceased an indemnity of one hundred mithqáls of gold. Observe ye that which hath
been enjoined upon you in this Tablet, and be not of those who overstep its limits.
O members of parliaments throughout the world! Select ye a single language for the use of all
on earth, and adopt ye likewise a common script. God, verily, maketh plain for you that which180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189

shall proﬁt you and enable you to be independent of others. He, of a truth, is the Most Bountiful,
the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. This will be the cause of unity, could ye but comprehend it,
and the greatest instrument for promoting harmony and civilization, would that ye might
understand! We have appointed two signs for the coming of age of the human race: the ﬁrst,
which is the most ﬁrm foundation, We have set down in other of Our Tablets, while the second
hath been revealed in this wondrous Book.
It hath been forbidden you to smoke opium. We, truly, have prohibited this practice through a
most binding interdiction in the Book. Should anyone partake thereof, assuredly he is not of Me.
Fear God, O ye endued with understanding!190

* * *
* * *
* * *Some Texts Revealed by Bahá’u’lláh Supplementary to the
Kitáb-i-Aqdas
A number of Tablets revealed by Bahá’u’lláh after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas contain passages supplementary to the
provisions of the Most Holy Book. The most noteworthy of these have been published in Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas. Included in this section is an extract from the Tablet of Ishráqát. The text of the
three Obligatory Prayers referred to in Questions and Answers and the Prayer for the Dead mentioned in the
Text are, likewise, reprinted here.
The Tablet of Ishráqát
The Eighth Ishráq
THIS passage, now written by the Pen of Glory, is accounted as part of the Most Holy Book: The
men of God’s House of Justice have been charged with the affairs of the people. They, in truth, are
the Trustees of God among His servants and the daysprings of authority in His countries.
O people of God! That which traineth the world is Justice, for it is upheld by two pillars,
reward and punishment. These two pillars are the sources of life to the world. Inasmuch as for
each day there is a new problem and for every problem an expedient solution, such affairs should
be referred to the House of Justice that the members thereof may act according to the needs and
requirements of the time. They that, for the sake of God, arise to serve His Cause, are the
recipients of divine inspiration from the unseen Kingdom. It is incumbent upon all to be obedient
unto them. All matters of State should be referred to the House of Justice, but acts of worship
must be observed according to that which God hath revealed in His Book.
O people of Bahá! Ye are the dawning-places of the love of God and the daysprings of His
loving-kindness. Deﬁle not your tongues with the cursing and reviling of any soul, and guard your
eyes against that which is not seemly. Set forth that which ye possess. If it be favorably received,
your end is attained; if not, to protest is vain. Leave that soul to himself and turn unto the Lord,
the Protector, the Self-Subsisting. Be not the cause of grief, much less of discord and strife. The
hope is cherished that ye may obtain true education in the shelter of the tree of His tender
mercies and act in accordance with that which God desireth. Ye are all the leaves of one tree and
the drops of one ocean.
(Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh revealed after the Kitáb-i-Aqdas)
Long Obligatory Prayer
To be recited once in twenty-four hours
Whoso wisheth to recite this prayer, let him stand up and turn unto God, and, as he standeth in his place, let
him gaze to the right and to the left, as if awaiting the mercy of his Lord, the Most Merciful, the

Compassionate. Then let him say:
O Thou Who art the Lord of all names and the Maker of the heavens! I beseech Thee by them
Who are the Daysprings of Thine invisible Essence, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious, to make of
my prayer a ﬁre that will burn away the veils which have shut me out from Thy beauty, and a
light that will lead me unto the ocean of Thy Presence.
Let him then raise his hands in supplication toward God—blessed and exalted be He—and say:
O Thou the Desire of the world and the Beloved of the nations! Thou seest me turning toward
Thee, and rid of all attachment to anyone save Thee, and clinging to Thy cord, through whose
movement the whole creation hath been stirred up. I am Thy servant, O my Lord, and the son of
Thy servant. Behold me standing ready to do Thy will and Thy desire, and wishing naught else
except Thy good pleasure. I implore Thee by the Ocean of Thy mercy and the Daystar of Thy
grace to do with Thy servant as Thou willest and pleasest. By Thy might which is far above all
mention and praise! Whatsoever is revealed by Thee is the desire of my heart and the beloved of
my soul. O God, my God! Look not upon my hopes and my doings, nay rather look upon Thy will
that hath encompassed the heavens and the earth. By Thy Most Great Name, O Thou Lord of all
nations! I have desired only what Thou didst desire, and love only what Thou dost love.
Let him then kneel, and bowing his forehead to the ground, let him say:
Exalted art Thou above the description of anyone save Thyself, and the comprehension of
aught else except Thee.
Let him then stand and say:
Make my prayer, O my Lord, a fountain of living waters whereby I may live as long as Thy
sovereignty endureth, and may make mention of Thee in every world of Thy worlds.
Let him again raise his hands in supplication, and say:
O Thou in separation from Whom hearts and souls have melted, and by the ﬁre of Whose love
the whole world hath been set aﬂame! I implore Thee by Thy Name through which Thou hast
subdued the whole creation, not to withhold from me that which is with Thee, O Thou Who rulest
over all men! Thou seest, O my Lord, this stranger hastening to his most exalted home beneath
the canopy of Thy majesty and within the precincts of Thy mercy; and this transgressor seeking
the ocean of Thy forgiveness; and this lowly one the court of Thy glory; and this poor creature the
orient of Thy wealth. Thine is the authority to command whatsoever Thou willest. I bear witness
that Thou art to be praised in Thy doings, and to be obeyed in Thy behests, and to remain
unconstrained in Thy bidding.
Let him then raise his hands, and repeat three times the Greatest Name. Let him then bend down with hands
resting on the knees before God—blessed and exalted be He—and say:
Thou seest, O my God, how my spirit hath been stirred up within my limbs and members, in
its longing to worship Thee, and in its yearning to remember Thee and extol Thee; how it
testiﬁeth to that whereunto the Tongue of Thy Commandment hath testiﬁed in the kingdom of
Thine utterance and the heaven of Thy knowledge. I love, in this state, O my Lord, to beg of Thee
all that is with Thee, that I may demonstrate my poverty, and magnify Thy bounty and Thy
riches, and may declare my powerlessness, and manifest Thy power and Thy might.
Let him then stand and raise his hands twice in supplication, and say:
There is no God but Thee, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful. There is no God but Thee, the
Ordainer, both in the beginning and in the end. O God, my God! Thy forgiveness hath emboldened
me, and Thy mercy hath strengthened me, and Thy call hath awakened me, and Thy grace hath
raised me up and led me unto Thee. Who, otherwise, am I that I should dare to stand at the gate of

the city of Thy nearness, or set my face toward the lights that are shining from the heaven of Thy
will? Thou seest, O my Lord, this wretched creature knocking at the door of Thy grace, and this
evanescent soul seeking the river of everlasting life from the hands of Thy bounty. Thine is the
command at all times, O Thou Who art the Lord of all names; and mine is resignation and willing
submission to Thy will, O Creator of the heavens!
Let him then raise his hands thrice, and say:
Greater is God than every great one!
Let him then kneel and, bowing his forehead to the ground, say:
Too high art Thou for the praise of those who are nigh unto Thee to ascend unto the heaven
of Thy nearness, or for the birds of the hearts of them who are devoted to Thee to attain to the
door of Thy gate. I testify that Thou hast been sanctiﬁed above all attributes and holy above all
names. No God is there but Thee, the Most Exalted, the All-Glorious.
Let him then seat himself and say:
I testify unto that whereunto have testiﬁed all created things, and the Concourse on high, and
the inmates of the all-highest Paradise, and beyond them the Tongue of Grandeur itself from the
all-glorious Horizon, that Thou art God, that there is no God but Thee, and that He Who hath been
manifested is the Hidden Mystery, the Treasured Symbol, through Whom the letters B and E (Be)
have been joined and knit together. I testify that it is He whose name hath been set down by the
Pen of the Most High, and Who hath been mentioned in the Books of God, the Lord of the Throne
on high and of earth below.
Let him then stand erect and say:
O Lord of all being and Possessor of all things visible and invisible! Thou dost perceive my
tears and the sighs I utter, and hearest my groaning, and my wailing, and the lamentation of my
heart. By Thy might! My trespasses have kept me back from drawing nigh unto Thee; and my
sins have held me far from the court of Thy holiness. Thy love, O my Lord, hath enriched me, and
separation from Thee hath destroyed me, and remoteness from Thee hath consumed me. I entreat
Thee by Thy footsteps in this wilderness, and by the words “Here am I. Here am I” which Thy
chosen Ones have uttered in this immensity, and by the breaths of Thy Revelation, and the gentle
winds of the Dawn of Thy Manifestation, to ordain that I may gaze on Thy beauty and observe
whatsoever is in Thy Book.
Let him then repeat the Greatest Name thrice, and bend down with hands resting on the knees, and say:
Praise be to Thee, O my God, that Thou hast aided me to remember Thee and to praise Thee,
and hast made known unto me Him Who is the Dayspring of Thy signs, and hast caused me to
bow down before Thy Lordship, and humble myself before Thy Godhead, and to acknowledge that
which hath been uttered by the Tongue of Thy grandeur.
Let him then rise and say:
O God, my God! My back is bowed by the burden of my sins, and my heedlessness hath
destroyed me. Whenever I ponder my evil doings and Thy benevolence, my heart melteth within
me, and my blood boileth in my veins. By Thy Beauty, O Thou the Desire of the world! I blush to
lift up my face to Thee, and my longing hands are ashamed to stretch forth toward the heaven of
Thy bounty. Thou seest, O my God, how my tears prevent me from remembering Thee and from
extolling Thy virtues, O Thou the Lord of the Throne on high and of earth below! I implore Thee
by the signs of Thy Kingdom and the mysteries of Thy Dominion to do with Thy loved ones as

* * *becometh Thy bounty, O Lord of all being, and is worthy of Thy grace, O King of the seen and the
unseen!
Let him then repeat the Greatest Name thrice, and kneel with his forehead to the ground, and say:
Praise be unto Thee, O our God, that Thou hast sent down unto us that which draweth us
nigh unto Thee, and supplieth us with every good thing sent down by Thee in Thy Books and Thy
Scriptures. Protect us, we beseech Thee, O my Lord, from the hosts of idle fancies and vain
imaginations. Thou, in truth, art the Mighty, the All-Knowing.
Let him then raise his head, and seat himself, and say:
I testify, O my God, to that whereunto Thy chosen Ones have testiﬁed, and acknowledge that
which the inmates of the all-highest Paradise and those who have circled round Thy mighty
Throne have acknowledged. The kingdoms of earth and heaven are Thine, O Lord of the worlds!
(Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, CLXXXIII)
Medium Obligatory Prayer
To be recited daily, in the morning, at noon, and in the evening
Whoso wisheth to pray, let him wash his hands, and while he washeth, let him say:
Strengthen my hand, O my God, that it may take hold of Thy Book with such steadfastness
that the hosts of the world shall have no power over it. Guard it, then, from meddling with
whatsoever doth not belong unto it. Thou art, verily, the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
And while washing his face, let him say:
I have turned my face unto Thee, O my Lord! Illumine it with the light of Thy countenance.
Protect it, then, from turning to anyone but Thee.
Then let him stand up, and facing the Qiblih (Point of Adoration, i.e. Bahjí, ‘Akká), let him say:
God testiﬁeth that there is none other God but Him. His are the kingdoms of Revelation and
of creation. He, in truth, hath manifested Him Who is the Dayspring of Revelation, Who
conversed on Sinai, through Whom the Supreme Horizon hath been made to shine, and the Lote-
Tree beyond which there is no passing hath spoken, and through Whom the call hath been
proclaimed unto all who are in heaven and on earth: “Lo, the All-Possessing is come. Earth and
heaven, glory and dominion are God’s, the Lord of all men, and the Possessor of the Throne on
high and of earth below!”
Let him, then, bend down, with hands resting on the knees, and say:
Exalted art Thou above my praise and the praise of anyone beside me, above my description
and the description of all who are in heaven and all who are on earth!
Then, standing with open hands, palms upward toward the face, let him say:
Disappoint not, O my God, him that hath, with beseeching ﬁngers, clung to the hem of Thy
mercy and Thy grace, O Thou Who of those who show mercy art the Most Merciful!
Let him, then, be seated and say:

* * *
* * *I bear witness to Thy unity and Thy oneness, and that Thou art God, and that there is none
other God beside Thee. Thou hast, verily, revealed Thy Cause, fulﬁlled Thy Covenant, and opened
wide the door of Thy grace to all that dwell in heaven and on earth. Blessing and peace, salutation
and glory, rest upon Thy loved ones, whom the changes and chances of the world have not
deterred from turning unto Thee, and who have given their all, in the hope of obtaining that which
is with Thee. Thou art, in truth, the Ever-Forgiving, the All-Bountiful.
(If anyone choose to recite instead of the long verse these words: “God testiﬁeth that there is none
other God but Him, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting,” it would be sufﬁcient. And likewise, it
would sufﬁce were he, while seated, to choose to recite these words: “I bear witness to Thy unity
and Thy oneness, and that Thou art God, and that there is none other God beside Thee.”)
(Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, CLXXXII)
Short Obligatory Prayer
To be recited once in twenty-four hours, at noon
I bear witness, O my God, that Thou hast created me to know Thee and to worship Thee. I testify,
at this moment, to my powerlessness and to Thy might, to my poverty and to Thy wealth.
There is none other God but Thee, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.
(Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, CLXXXI)
Prayer for the Dead
O my God! This is Thy servant and the son of Thy servant who hath believed in Thee and in Thy
signs, and set his face towards Thee, wholly detached from all except Thee. Thou art, verily, of
those who show mercy the most merciful.
Deal with him, O Thou Who forgivest the sins of men and concealest their faults, as
beseemeth the heaven of Thy bounty and the ocean of Thy grace. Grant him admission within the
precincts of Thy transcendent mercy that was before the foundation of earth and heaven. There is
no God but Thee, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Generous.
Let him, then, repeat six times the greeting “Alláh-u-Abhá,” and then repeat nineteen times each of
the following verses:
We all, verily, worship God.
We all, verily, bow down before God.
We all, verily, are devoted unto God.
We all, verily, give praise unto God.
We all, verily, yield thanks unto God.
We all, verily, are patient in God.
(If the dead be a woman, let him say: This is Thy handmaiden and the daughter of Thy handmaiden,
etc…)
(Prayers and Meditations by Bahá’u’lláh, CLXVII)

Questions and Answers
Q u e s t i o n : Concerning the Most Great Festival.
Answer: The Most Great Festival commenceth late in the afternoon of the thirteenth day of
the second month of the year according to the Bayán. On the ﬁrst, ninth and twelfth days of
this Festival, work is forbidden.
Q u e s t i o n : Concerning the Festival of the Twin Birthdays.
Answer: The Birth of the Abhá Beauty1 was at the hour of dawn on the second day of the
month of Muḥarram,2 the ﬁrst day of which marketh the Birth of His Herald. These two days
are accounted as one in the sight of God.
Q u e s t i o n : Concerning the Marriage Verses.3
Answer: For men: “We will all, verily, abide by the Will of God.” For women: “We will all, verily,
abide by the Will of God.”
Q u e s t i o n : Should a man go on a journey without specifying a time for his return without indicating, in
other words, the expected period of his absence—and should no word be heard of him thereafter, and all
trace of him be lost, what course should be followed by his wife?
Answer: Should he have omitted to ﬁx a time for his return despite being aware of the
stipulation of the Kitáb-i-Aqdas in this regard, his wife should wait for one full year, after
which she shall be free either to adopt the course that is praiseworthy, or to choose for herself
another husband. If, however, he be unaware of this stipulation, she should abide in patience
until such time as God shall please to disclose to her his fate. By the course that is
praiseworthy in this connection is meant the exercise of patience.
Q u e s t i o n : Concerning the holy verse: “When We heard the clamor of the children as yet unborn, We
doubled their share and decreased those of the rest.”
Answer: According to the Book of God, the estate of the deceased is divided into 2,520 shares,
which number is the lowest common multiple of all integers up to nine, and these shares are
then distributed into seven portions, each of which is allocated, as mentioned in the Book, to a
particular category of heirs. The children, for example, are allotted nine blocks of 60 shares,
comprising 540 shares in all. The meaning of the statement “We doubled their share” is thus
that the children receive a further nine blocks of 60 shares, entitling them to a total of 18
blocks all told. The extra shares that they receive are deducted from the portions of the other
categories of heirs, so that, although it is revealed, for instance, that the spouse is entitled to
“eight parts comprising four hundred and eighty shares,” which is the equivalent of eight
blocks of 60 shares, now, by virtue of this rearrangement, one and a half blocks of shares,
comprising 90 shares in all, have been subtracted from the spouse’s portion and reallocated to
the children, and similarly in the case of the others. The result is that the total amount
subtracted is equivalent to the nine extra blocks of shares allotted to the children.
Q u e s t i o n : Is it necessary that the brother, in order to qualify for his portion of the inheritance, be
descended from both the father and the mother of the deceased, or is it sufﬁcient merely that there be one
parent in common?
Answer: If the brother be descended from the father he shall receive his share of the
inheritance in the prescribed measure recorded in the Book; but if he be descended from the
mother, he shall receive only two-thirds of his entitlement, the remaining third reverting to
the House of Justice. This ruling is also applicable to the sister.
Q u e s t i o n : Amongst the provisions concerning inheritance it hath been laid down that, should the deceased
leave no offspring, their share of the estate is to revert to the House of Justice. In the event of other
categories of heirs, such as the father, mother, brother, sister and teacher being similarly absent, do their
shares of the inheritance also revert to the House of Justice, or are they dealt with in some other fashion?1
2
3
4
5
6
7

Answer: The sacred verse sufﬁceth. He saith, exalted be His Word: “Should the deceased leave
no offspring, their share shall revert to the House of Justice” etc. and “Should the deceased
leave offspring, but none of the other categories of heirs that have been speciﬁed in the Book,
they shall receive two-thirds of the inheritance and the remaining third shall revert to the
House of Justice” etc. In other words, where there are no offspring, their allotted portion of
the inheritance reverteth to the House of Justice; and where there are offspring but the other
categories of heirs are lacking, two-thirds of the inheritance pass to the offspring, the
remaining third reverting to the House of Justice. This ruling hath both general and speciﬁc
application, which is to say that whenever any category of this latter class of heirs is absent,
two-thirds of their inheritance pass to the offspring and the remaining third to the House of
Justice.
Q u e s t i o n : Concerning the basic sum on which Ḥuqúqu’lláh is payable.
Answer: The basic sum on which Ḥuqúqu’lláh is payable is nineteen mithqáls of gold. In other
words, when money to the value of this sum hath been acquired, a payment of Ḥuqúq falleth
due. Likewise Ḥuqúq is payable when the value, not the number, of other forms of property
reacheth the prescribed amount. Ḥuqúqu’lláh is payable no more than once. A person, for
instance, who acquireth a thousand mithqáls of gold, and payeth the Ḥuqúq, is not liable to
make a further such payment on this sum, but only on what accrueth to it through commerce,
business and the like. When this increase, namely the proﬁt realized, reacheth the prescribed
sum, one must carry out what God hath decreed. Only when the principal changeth hands is
it once more subject to payment of Ḥuqúq, as it was the ﬁrst time. The Primal Point hath
directed that Ḥuqúqu’lláh must be paid on the value of whatsoever one possesseth; yet, in
this Most Mighty Dispensation, We have exempted the household furnishings, that is such
furnishings as are needed, and the residence itself.
Q u e s t i o n : Which is to take precedence: the Ḥuqúqu’lláh, the debts of the deceased or the cost of the
funeral and burial?
Answer: The funeral and burial take precedence, then settlement of debts, then payment of
Ḥuqúqu’lláh. Should the property of the deceased prove insufﬁcient to cover his debts, the
remainder of his estate should be distributed among these debts in proportion to their size.
Q u e s t i o n : Shaving the head hath been forbidden in the Kitáb-i-Aqdas but enjoined in the Súriy-i-Ḥajj.
Answer: All are charged with obedience to the Kitáb-i-Aqdas; whatsoever is revealed therein is
the Law of God amid His servants. The injunction on pilgrims to the sacred House to shave
the head hath been lifted.
Q u e s t i o n : If intercourse take place between a couple during their year of patience, and they become
estranged again thereafter, must they recommence their year of patience, or may the days preceding the
intercourse be included in the reckoning of the year? And once divorce hath taken place, is it necessary
that a further period of waiting be observed?
Answer: Should affection be renewed between the couple during their year of patience, the
marriage tie is valid, and what is commanded in the Book of God must be observed; but once
the year of patience hath been completed and that which is decreed by God taketh place, a
further period of waiting is not required. Sexual intercourse between husband and wife is
forbidden during their year of patience, and whoso committeth this act must seek God’s
forgiveness, and, as a punishment, render to the House of Justice a ﬁne of nineteen mithqáls
of gold.
Q u e s t i o n : Should antipathy develop between a couple after the Marriage Verses have been read and the
dowry paid, may divorce take place without observance of the year of patience?
Answer: Divorce may legitimately be sought after the reading of the Marriage Verses and
payment of the dowry, but before the consummation of the marriage. In such circumstances8
9
10
11
12