* * *
* * *The Summons of the Lord of Hosts
Tablets of Bahá’u’lláh
Introduction
Súriy-i-Haykal / Súrih of the Temple
Pope Pius IX
Napoleon III
Czar Alexander II
Queen Victoria
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh / Lawḥ-i-Sulṭán
Súriy-i-Ra’ís
Lawḥ-i-Ra’ís
Lawḥ-i-Fu’ád
Súriy-i-Mulúk / Súrih of the Kings
Endnotes
Note on the Translation
Key to Passages Translated by Shoghi Effendi
Introduction
The years following Bahá’u’lláh’s arrival in Adrianople witnessed His Revelation’s attainment, in
the words of Shoghi Effendi, of “its meridian glory” through the proclamation of its Founder’s
message to the kings and rulers of the world. During this relatively brief but turbulent period of
the Faith’s history, and in the early years of His subsequent exile in 1868 to the fortress town of
‘Akká, He summoned the monarchs of East and West collectively, and some among them
individually, to recognize the Day of God and to acknowledge the One promised in the scriptures
of the religions professed by the recipients of His summons. “Never since the beginning of the
world”, Bahá’u’lláh declares, “hath the Message been so openly proclaimed.”
The present volume brings together the ﬁrst full, authorized English translation of these
major writings. Among them is the complete Súriy-i-Haykal, the Súrih of the Temple, one of
Bahá’u’lláh’s most challenging works. It was originally revealed during His banishment to
Adrianople and later recast after His arrival in ‘Akká. In this version He incorporated His
messages addressed to individual potentates—Pope Pius IX, Napoleon III, Czar Alexander II, Queen
Victoria, and Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh.
It was this composite work which, shortly after its completion, Bahá’u’lláh instructed be
written in the form of a pentacle, symbolizing the human temple. To it He added, as a conclusion,
what Shoghi Effendi has described as “words which reveal the importance He attached to those
Messages, and indicate their direct association with the prophecies of the Old Testament”:
Thus have We built the Temple with the hands of power and might, could ye but know it.
This is the Temple promised unto you in the Book. Draw ye nigh unto it. This is that which
proﬁteth you, could ye but comprehend it. Be fair, O peoples of the earth! Which is preferable,
this, or a temple which is built of clay? Set your faces towards it. Thus have ye been
commanded by God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.

During the last years of His ministry Bahá’u’lláh Himself arranged for the publication for the
ﬁrst time of deﬁnitive versions of some of His principal works, and the Súriy-i-Haykal was
awarded a prominent position among them.
Of the various writings that make up the Súriy-i-Haykal, one requires particular mention.
The Lawḥ-i-Sulṭán, the Tablet to Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh, Bahá’u’lláh’s lengthiest epistle to any single
sovereign, was revealed in the weeks immediately preceding His ﬁnal banishment to ‘Akká. It was
eventually delivered to the monarch by Badí‘, a youth of seventeen, who had entreated
Bahá’u’lláh for the honour of rendering some service. His efforts won him the crown of
martyrdom and immortalized his name. The Tablet contains the celebrated passage describing the
circumstances in which the divine call was communicated to Bahá’u’lláh and the effect it
produced. Here, too, we ﬁnd His unequivocal offer to meet with the Muslim clergy, in the presence
of the Sháh, and to provide whatever proofs of the new Revelation they might consider to be
deﬁnitive, a test of spiritual integrity signiﬁcantly failed by those who claimed to be the
authoritative trustees of the message of the Qur’án.
Included in this collection, as well, is the ﬁrst full translation of the Súriy-i-Mulúk or Súrih of
the Kings, which Shoghi Effendi described as “the most momentous Tablet revealed by Bahá’u’lláh
in which He, for the ﬁrst time, directs His words collectively to the entire company of the
monarchs of East and West”. It sets forth both the character of His mission and the standard of
justice that must govern the exercise of their rule in this Day of God:
Lay not aside the fear of God, O kings of the earth, and beware that ye transgress not the
bounds which the Almighty hath ﬁxed. Observe the injunctions laid upon you in His Book,
and take good heed not to overstep their limits. Be vigilant, that ye may not do injustice to
anyone, be it to the extent of a grain of mustard seed. Tread ye the path of justice, for this,
verily, is the straight path.
The Tablet introduces some of the great themes that were to ﬁgure prominently in the
Writings of Bahá’u’lláh over the next two and a half decades: the obligation of those into whose
hands God has entrusted civil authority to institute the reign of justice, the necessity for the
reduction of armaments and the resolution of conﬂicts among nations, and an end to the excessive
expenditures that were impoverishing these rulers’ subjects.
Surveying the principal contents of Bahá’u’lláh’s majestic call to the kings and rulers of the
world, Shoghi Effendi has written:
The magnitude and diversity of the theme, the cogency of the argument, the sublimity and
audacity of the language, arrest our attention and astound our minds. Emperors, kings and
princes, chancellors and ministers, the Pope himself, priests, monks and philosophers, the
exponents of learning, parliamentarians and deputies, the rich ones of the earth, the followers
of all religions, and the people of Bahá—all are brought within the purview of the Author of
these Messages, and receive, each according to their merits, the counsels and admonitions
they deserve. No less amazing is the diversity of the subjects touched upon in these Tablets.
The transcendent majesty and unity of an unknowable and unapproachable God is extolled,
and the oneness of His Messengers proclaimed and emphasized. The uniqueness, the
universality and potentialities of the Bahá’í Faith are stressed, and the purpose and character
of the Bábí Revelation unfolded.
The summary draws attention to Bahá’u’lláh’s uncompromising indictment of the conditions
of human society for which its leadership is held primarily responsible:
Episodes, at once moving and marvellous, at various stages of His ministry, are recounted, and
the transitoriness of worldly pomp, fame, riches, and sovereignty, repeatedly and categorically
asserted. Appeals for the application of the highest principles in human and international
relations are forcibly and insistently made, and the abandonment of discreditable practices
and conventions, detrimental to the happiness, the growth, the prosperity and the unity of
the human race, enjoined. Kings are censured, ecclesiastical dignitaries arraigned, ministers

and plenipotentiaries condemned, and the identiﬁcation of His advent with the coming of the
Father Himself unequivocally admitted and repeatedly announced. The violent downfall of a
few of these kings and emperors is prophesied, two of them are deﬁnitely challenged, most
are warned, all are appealed to and exhorted.
In a Tablet, the original of which has been lost, Bahá’u’lláh had already condemned, in the
severest terms, the misrule of the Ottoman Sulṭán ‘Abdu’l-‘Azíz. The present volume includes,
however, three other Tablets which address two ministers of the Sulṭán, whose selﬁsh and
unprincipled inﬂuence played an important role in Bahá’u’lláh’s successive banishments. The
Súriy-i-Ra’ís, which addresses ‘Álí Páshá, the Ottoman Prime Minister, was revealed in August
1868 as the exiles were being moved from Adrianople to Gallipoli, and exposes unsparingly the
abuse of civil power the minister had perpetrated. The Lawḥ-i-Ra’ís, which also contains passages
directed to ‘Álí Páshá, was revealed shortly after Bahá’u’lláh’s incarceration in the citadel of ‘Akká
and includes a chilling denunciation of the character of the minister. The third Tablet, the Lawḥ-i-
Fu’ád, revealed in 1869 shortly after the death of Fu’ád Páshá, the Ottoman minister to whose
machinations it refers, describes the spiritual consequences of the abuse of power, and foretells
the imminent downfall of his colleague, ‘Álí Páshá, and the overthrow of the Sulṭán himself—
prophecies that were widely circulated and whose dramatic fulﬁlment added greatly to the
prestige of their Author.
It seems especially appropriate, as Bahá’u’lláh’s inﬂuence penetrates ever more deeply the
life of the larger society throughout the world, that the full texts of these great Tablets should
now be available for a broad readership. We express to the committees who were commissioned to
undertake and review these translations the deep gratitude we feel for the care and sensitivity
they have brought to the task. Bahá’ís will recognize key passages from several of the Tablets that
were introduced to the West by Shoghi Effendi. His translations into English of the Bahá’í Holy
Texts provide an enduring standard for the efforts of those who rise to the challenge of preparing
appropriate renderings into English of these treasures of the Faith.
The Universal House of Justice

Súriy-i-Haykal
This is the Súrih of the Temple which God hath ordained to be the Mirror of His Names between the
heavens and the earth, and the Sign of His Remembrance amidst the peoples of the world.
HE IS THE MOST WONDROUS, THE ALL-GLORIOUS!
GLORIFIED is He Who hath revealed His verses to those who understand. Gloriﬁed is He Who
revealeth His verses to those who perceive. Gloriﬁed is He Who guideth whomsoever He pleaseth
unto His path. Say: I, verily, am the Path of God unto all who are in the heavens and all who are
on the earth; well is it with them that hasten thereunto!
Gloriﬁed is He Who sendeth down His verses to those who comprehend. Gloriﬁed is He Who
speaketh forth from the Kingdom of His Revelation, and Who remaineth unknown to all save His
honoured servants. Gloriﬁed is He Who quickeneth whomsoever He willeth by virtue of His word
“Be”, and it is! Gloriﬁed is He Who causeth whomsoever He willeth to ascend unto the heaven of
grace, and sendeth down therefrom whatsoever He desireth according to a prescribed measure.
Blessed is He Who doeth as He willeth by a word of His command. He, verily, is the True
One, the All-Knowing. Blessed is He Who inspireth whomsoever He willeth with whatsoever He
desireth, through His irresistible and inscrutable command. Blessed is He Who aideth whomsoever
He desireth with the hosts of the unseen. His might is, in truth, equal to His purpose, and He,
verily, is the All-Glorious, the Self-Subsisting. Blessed is He Who exalteth whomsoever He willeth
by the power of His sovereign might, and conﬁrmeth whomsoever He chooseth in accordance with
His good pleasure; well is it with them that understand!
Blessed is He Who, in a well-guarded Tablet, hath prescribed a ﬁxed measure unto all things.
Blessed is He Who hath revealed unto His Servant that which shall illumine the hearts and minds
of men. Blessed is He Who hath sent down upon His Servant such tribulations as have melted the
hearts of them that dwell within the Tabernacle of eternity and the souls of those who have
drawn nigh unto their Lord. Blessed is He Who hath showered upon His Servant, from the clouds
of His decree, the darts of afﬂiction, and Who beholdeth Me enduring them with patience and
fortitude. Blessed is He Who hath ordained for His Servant that which He hath destined for no
other soul. He, verily, is the One, the Incomparable, the Self-Subsisting.
Blessed is He Who hath caused to rain down upon His Servant from the clouds of enmity, and
at the hands of the people of denial, the shafts of tribulation and trial; and yet seeth Our heart
ﬁlled with gratitude. Blessed is He Who hath laid upon the shoulders of His Servant the burden of
the heavens and of the earth—a burden for which We yield Him every praise, though none may
grasp this save them that are endued with understanding. Gloriﬁed is He Who hath surrendered
the embodiment of His Beauty to the clutches of the envious and the wicked—a fate unto which
We are fully resigned, though none may perceive this save those who are endued with insight.
Gloriﬁed is He Who hath left Ḥusayn to make His dwelling amidst the hosts of His enemies, and
exposed His body with every breath to the spears of hatred and anger; yet do We yield Him
thanks for all that He hath destined to befall His Servant Who repaireth unto Him in His afﬂiction
and grief.
While engulfed in tribulations I heard a most wondrous, a most sweet voice, calling above My
head. Turning My face, I beheld a Maiden—the embodiment of the remembrance of the name of
My Lord—suspended in the air before Me. So rejoiced was she in her very soul that her
countenance shone with the ornament of the good pleasure of God, and her cheeks glowed with
the brightness of the All-Merciful. Betwixt earth and heaven she was raising a call which
captivated the hearts and minds of men. She was imparting to both My inward and outer being
tidings which rejoiced My soul, and the souls of God’s honoured servants.
Pointing with her ﬁnger unto My head, she addressed all who are in heaven and all who are
on earth, saying: By God! This is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, and yet ye comprehend not. This
is the Beauty of God amongst you, and the power of His sovereignty within you, could ye but
understand. This is the Mystery of God and His Treasure, the Cause of God and His glory unto all1
2
3
4
5
6
7

who are in the kingdoms of Revelation and of creation, if ye be of them that perceive. This is He
Whose Presence is the ardent desire of the denizens of the Realm of eternity, and of them that
dwell within the Tabernacle of glory, and yet from His Beauty do ye turn aside.
O people of the Bayán! If ye aid Him not, God will assuredly assist Him with the powers of
earth and heaven, and sustain Him with the hosts of the unseen through His command “Be”, and
it is! The day is approaching when God will have, by an act of His Will, raised up a race of men
the nature of which is inscrutable to all save God, the All-Powerful, the Self-Subsisting. He shall
purify them from the deﬁlement of idle fancies and corrupt desires, shall lift them up to the
heights of holiness, and shall cause them to manifest the signs of His sovereignty and might upon
earth. Thus hath it been ordained by God, the All-Glorious, the All-Loving.
O people of the Bayán! Would ye deny Him Whose presence is the very object of your
creation, while ye rejoice idly upon your couches? Would ye laugh to scorn and contend with Him,
a single hair of Whose head excelleth, in the sight of God, all that are in the heavens and all that
are on the earth? O people of the Bayán! Produce, then, that which ye possess, that I may know
by what proof ye believed aforetime in the Manifestations of His Cause, and by what reason ye
now wax so disdainful!
I swear by Him Who hath fashioned Me from the light of His own Beauty! None have I ever
seen that surpasseth you in heedlessness or exceedeth you in blindness. Ye seek to prove your
faith in God through such holy Tablets as ye possess, yet when the verses of God were revealed
and His Lamp was lighted, ye disbelieved in Him Whose very Pen hath ﬁxed the destinies of all
things in the Preserved Tablet. Ye recite the sacred verses and yet repudiate Him Who is their
Source and Revealer. Thus hath God blinded your eyes in requital for your deeds, would ye but
understand. Day and night ye transcribe the verses of God, and yet ye remain shut out, as by a
veil, from Him Who hath revealed them.
In this Day the Concourse on high beholdeth you in your evil doings and shunneth your
company, and yet ye perceive it not. They ask of one another: “What words do these fools utter,
and in what valley are they wont to graze? Do they deny that whereunto their very souls testify,
and shut their eyes to that which they plainly behold?” I swear by God, O people! They that
inhabit the Cities of the Names of God are bewildered at your actions, while ye roam, aimless and
unconscious, in a parched and barren land.
O Pen of the Most High! Hearken unto the Call of Thy Lord, raised from the Divine Lote-Tree
in the holy and luminous Spot, that the sweet accents of Thy Lord, the All-Merciful, may ﬁll Thy
soul with joy and fervour, and that the breezes that waft from My name, the Ever-Forgiving, may
dispel Thy cares and sorrows. Raise up, then, from this Temple, the temples of the Oneness of
God, that they may tell out, in the kingdom of creation, the tidings of their Lord, the Most Exalted,
the All-Glorious, and be of them that are illumined by His light.
We, verily, have ordained this Temple to be the source of all existence in the new creation,
that all may know of a certainty My power to accomplish that which I have purposed through My
word “Be”, and it is! Beneath the shadow of every letter of this Temple We shall raise up a people
whose number none can reckon save God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Erelong shall God
bring forth from His Temple such souls as will remain unswayed by the insinuations of the
rebellious, and who will quaff at all times of the cup that is life indeed. These, truly, are of the
blissful.
These are servants who abide beneath the shelter of the tender mercy of their Lord, and who
remain undeterred by those who seek to obstruct their path. Upon their faces may be seen the
brightness of the light of the All-Merciful, and from their hearts may be heard the remembrance of
Mine all-glorious and inaccessible Name. Were they to unloose their tongues to extol their Lord,
the denizens of earth and heaven would join in their anthems of praise—yet how few are they
who hear! And were they to glorify their Lord, all created things would join in their hymns of
glory. Thus hath God exalted them above the rest of His creation, and yet the people remain
unaware!
These are they who circle round the Cause of God even as the shadow doth revolve around
the sun. Open, then, your eyes, O people of the Bayán, that haply ye may behold them! It is by8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15

virtue of their movement that all things are set in motion, and by reason of their stillness all
things are brought to rest, would that ye might be assured thereof! Through them the believers in
the Divine Unity have turned towards Him Who is the Object of the adoration of the entire
creation, and by them the hearts of the righteous have found rest and composure, could ye but
know it! Through them the earth hath been established, the clouds have rained down their bounty,
and the bread of holiness hath descended from the heaven of grace, could ye but perceive it!
These souls are the protectors of the Cause of God on earth, who shall preserve its beauty
from the obscuring dust stirred up by every rejected disbeliever. In the path of their Lord they
shall not fear for their lives; rather will they sacriﬁce their all in their eagerness to behold the face
of their Well-Beloved and His exaltation in this Name, the Almighty, the All-Powerful, the All-
Glorious, the Most Holy.
O Living Temple! Arise by the power of Thy Self in such wise that all created things will be
moved to arise with Thee. Aid, then, Thy Lord through such ascendancy and might as We have
bestowed upon Thee. Take heed lest Thou falter on that Day when all created things are ﬁlled
with dismay; rather be Thou the revealer of My name, the Self-Subsisting. Assist Thy Lord to the
utmost of Thine ability, and pay no heed to the peoples of the world, for that which their mouths
utter is like unto the droning of a gnat in an endless valley. Quaff the water of life in My name,
the All-Merciful, and proffer unto the near ones amongst the inmates of this heavenly garden that
which shall cause them to become detached from all names and enter beneath this blessed and all-
encompassing shadow.
O Living Temple! Through Thee have We gathered together all created things, whether in the
heavens or on the earth, and called them to account for that which We had covenanted with them
before the foundation of the world. And lo, but for a few radiant faces and eloquent tongues, We
found most of the people dumbfounded, their eyes staring up in fear. From the former We brought
forth the creation of all that hath been and all that shall be. These are they whose countenances
God hath graciously turned away from the face of the unbelievers, and whom He hath sheltered
beneath the shadow of the Tree of His own Being; they upon whose hearts He hath bestowed the
gift of peace and tranquillity, and whom He hath strengthened and assisted through the hosts of
the seen and the unseen.
O Eyes of this Temple! Look not upon the heavens and that which they contain, nor upon the
earth and them that dwell thereon, for We have created you to behold Our own Beauty: See it now
before you! Withhold not your gaze therefrom, and deprive not yourselves of the Beauty of your
Lord, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Erelong shall We bring into being through you keen and
penetrating eyes that will contemplate the manifold signs of their Creator and turn away from all
that is perceived by the people of the world. Through you shall We bestow the power of vision
upon whomsoever We desire, and lay hold upon those who have deprived themselves of this
gracious bounty. These, verily, have drunk from the cup of delusion, though they perceive it not.
O Ears of this Temple! Purge yourselves from all idle clamour and hearken unto the melodies
of your Lord. He, verily, revealeth unto you, from the Throne of glory, that there is none other God
save Me, the All-Glorious, the Almighty, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. Erelong shall We
bring into being through you pure and undeﬁled ears which will heed the Word of God and that
which hath appeared from the Dayspring of the Utterance of your Lord, the All-Merciful. They
shall assuredly perceive the sweet accents of Divine Revelation that proceed from these most
blessed and hallowed precincts.
O Tongue of this Temple! We, verily, have created thee through Our name, the All-Merciful,
have taught thee whatsoever had remained concealed in the Bayán, and have bestowed upon thee
the power of utterance, that thou mayest make mention of Mine exalted Self amidst My creatures.
Proclaim, then, this wondrous and mighty Remembrance, and fear not the manifestations of the
Evil One. Thou wert called into being for this very purpose by virtue of My transcendent and all-
compelling command. Through thee have We unloosed the Tongue of Utterance to expound all
that hath been, and We shall again, by My sovereign power, unloose it to speak of that which is
yet to come. Erelong shall We bring into being through thee eloquent tongues that will praise and
extol Me amongst the Concourse of eternity and amidst the peoples of the world. Thus have the16
17
18
19
20
21

verses of God been revealed, and thus hath it been decreed by the Lord of all names and attributes.
Thy Lord, verily, is the True One, the Knower of things unseen. Nothing whatsoever shall prevent
these tongues from magnifying their Creator. Through them, all created things shall arise to
glorify the Lord of names and to bear witness that there is none other God save Me, the All-
Powerful, the Most Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Nor shall those who make mention of Me speak
aught unless they be inspired by this Tongue from its heavenly garden. Few, however, are they
who understand! No tongue is there that speaketh not the praises of its Lord and maketh not
mention of His Name. Amongst the people, however, are those who understand and utter praises,
and those who utter praises, yet understand not.
O Maid of inner meanings! Step out of the chamber of utterance by the leave of God, the Lord
of the heavens and the earth. Reveal, then, thyself adorned with the raiment of the celestial
Realm, and proffer with thy ruby ﬁngers the wine of the heavenly Dominion, that haply the
denizens of this world may perceive that the Daystar of eternity shone forth above the horizon of
the Kingdom with the adornment of glory. Perchance they may arise before the dwellers of earth
and heaven to extol and magnify this Youth Who hath established Himself in the midmost heart
of Paradise upon the throne of His name, the Most Bountiful—He from Whose countenance
shineth the brightness of the All-Merciful, from Whose gaze appear the glances of the All-
Glorious, and in Whose ways are revealed the tokens and evidences of God, the Help in Peril, the
Self-Subsisting.
Grieve not if none be found to accept the crimson wine proffered by Thy snow-white hand
and to seize it in the name of Thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most High—He Who hath appeared
again in His name, the Most Glorious. Leave this people unto themselves, and repair unto the
Tabernacle of majesty and glory, wherein Thou shalt encounter a people whose faces shine as
brightly as the sun in its noontide splendour, and who praise and extol their Lord in this Name
that hath arisen, in the plenitude of might and power, to assume the throne of independent
sovereignty. From their lips Thou shalt hear naught but the strains of My praise; unto this Thy
Lord beareth Me witness. The existence of these people, however, hath remained concealed from
the eyes of all who, from everlasting, have been created through the Word of God. Thus have We
made plain Our meaning and set forth Our verses, that perchance men may reﬂect upon the signs
and tokens of their Lord.
These are they who, in truth, were not enjoined to prostrate themselves before Adam.[1] They
have never turned away from the countenance of Thy Lord, and partake at every moment of the
gifts and delights of holiness. Thus hath the Pen of the All-Merciful set forth the secrets of all
things, be they of the past or of the future. Would that the world might understand! Erelong shall
God make manifest this people upon the earth, and through them shall exalt His name, diffuse
His signs, uphold His words, and proclaim His verses, in spite of those that have repudiated His
truth, gainsaid His sovereignty, and cavilled at His signs.
O Beauty of the All-Glorious! Shouldst Thou chance upon this people and enter their
presence, recount unto them that which this Youth hath related unto Thee concerning Himself
and the things that have befallen Him, that they may come to know what hath been inscribed
upon the Preserved Tablet. Acquaint them with the tidings of this Youth, and with the trials and
tribulations He hath suffered, that they may become mindful of Mine afﬂictions, and be of them
that are occupied with His remembrance. Recount, then, unto them how We singled out for Our
favour one of Our brothers,1 how We imparted unto him a dewdrop from the fathomless ocean of
knowledge, clothed him with the garment of one of Our Names, and exalted him to such a station
that all were moved to extol him, and how We so protected him from the harm of the malevolent
as to disarm even the mightiest amongst them.
We arose alone before the gaze of the peoples of earth and heaven at a time when all had
determined to slay us. While dwelling in their midst, We continually made mention of the Lord,
celebrated His praise, and stood ﬁrm in His Cause, until at last the Word of God was vindicated
amongst His creatures, His signs were spread abroad, His power exalted, and His sovereignty
revealed in its full splendour. To this bear witness all His honoured servants. Yet when My brother
beheld the rising fame of the Cause, he became ﬁlled with arrogance and pride. Thereupon he22
23
24
25
26

emerged from behind the veil of concealment, rose up against Me, disputed My verses, denied My
testimony, and repudiated My signs. Nor would his hunger be appeased unless he were to devour
My ﬂesh and drink My blood. To this testify such of God’s servants as have accompanied Him in
His exile, and, beyond them, they that enjoy near access unto Him.
To this end he conferred with one of My servants[2] and sought to win him over to his own
designs; whereupon the Lord despatched unto Mine assistance the hosts of the seen and the
unseen, protected Me by the power of truth, and sent down upon Me that which thwarted his
purpose. Thus were foiled the plots of those who disbelieve in the verses of the All-Merciful.
They, truly, are a rejected people. When news spread of that which the promptings of self had
impelled My brother to attempt, and Our companions in exile learned of his nefarious design, the
voice of their indignation and grief was lifted up and threatened to spread throughout the city. We
forbade, however, such recriminations, and enjoined upon them patience, that they might be of
those that endure steadfastly.
By God, besides Whom is none other God! We withstood all these trials with forbearance, and
enjoined upon God’s servants to show forth patience and fortitude. Removing Ourself from their
midst, We took up residence in another house, that perchance the ﬂame of envy might be
quenched in Our brother’s breast, and that he might be guided aright. We neither opposed him, nor
saw him again thereafter, but remained in Our home, placing Our hopes in the bounty of God, the
Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. When, however, he realized that his deed had been exposed, he
seized the pen of calumny and wrote unto the servants of God, attributing what he had himself
committed unto Mine own peerless and wronged Beauty. His purpose was none other than to
inspire mischief and to instil hatred into the hearts of those who had believed in God, the All-
Glorious, the All-Loving.
By the One in Whose hand is My soul! We were dismayed by his deceitfulness—nay,
bewildered were all things visible and invisible. Nor did he ﬁnd respite from what he harboured in
his bosom until he had committed that which no pen dare describe, and by which he disgraced the
dignity of My station and profaned the sanctity of God, the Almighty, the All-Glorious, the All-
Praised. Were God to turn all the oceans of the earth into ink and all created things into pens, they
would not sufﬁce Me to exhaust the record of his wrongdoings. Thus do We recount that which
befell Us, that haply ye may be of them that understand.
O Pen of Eternity! Grieve not at the things that have befallen Thee, for erelong shall God
raise up a people who will see with their own eyes and will recall Thy tribulations. Withhold Thy
pen from the mention of Thine enemies, and bestir it in the praise of the Eternal King. Renounce
all created things, and quaff the sealed wine of My remembrance. Beware lest Thou become
occupied with the mention of those from whom naught save the noisome savours of enmity can
be perceived, those who are so enslaved by their lust for leadership that they would not hesitate
to destroy themselves in their desire to emblazon their fame and perpetuate their names. God
hath recorded such souls in the Preserved Tablet as mere worshippers of names. Recount then that
which Thou hast purposed for this Temple, that its signs and tokens may be made manifest upon
earth, and that the brightness of this Light may illumine the horizons of the world and cleanse the
earth from the deﬁlement of those who have disbelieved in God. Thus have We set down the
verses of God and made plain the matter unto those who understand.
O Living Temple! Stretch forth Thy hand over all who are in heaven and on earth, and seize
within the grasp of Thy Will the reins of command. We have, verily, placed in Thy right hand the
empire of all things. Do as Thou willest, and fear not the ignorant. Reach out to the Tablet that
hath dawned above the horizon of the pen of Thy Lord, and take hold of it in such wise that,
through Thee, the hands of all who inhabit the earth may be enabled to lay fast hold upon it. This,
in truth, is that which becometh Thee, if Thou be of those who understand. Through the upraising
of Thy hand to the heaven of My grace, the hands of all created things shall be lifted up to their
Lord, the Mighty, the Powerful, the Gracious. Erelong shall We raise up, through the aid of Thy
hand, other hands endued with power, with strength and might, and shall establish through them
Our dominion over all that dwell in the realms of revelation and creation. Thus will the servants of
God recognize the truth that there is none other God beside Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-27
28
29
30
31

Subsisting. With these hands, moreover, We shall both bestow and withhold, though none can
understand this save those who see with the eye of the spirit.
Say: O people! Can ye ever hope to escape the sovereign power of your Lord? By the
righteousness of God! No refuge will ye ﬁnd in this day, and no one to protect you, save those
upon whom God hath bestowed the favour of His mercy. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most
Compassionate. Say: O people! Forsake all that ye possess, and enter beneath the shadow of your
Lord, the All-Merciful. Better is this for you than all your works of the past and of the future. Fear
ye God, and deprive not yourselves of the sweet savours of the days of God, the Lord of all names
and attributes. Take heed lest ye alter or pervert the text of the Word of God. Walk ye in the fear
of God, and be numbered with the righteous.
Say: O people! This is the Hand of God, which hath ever been above your own hands, could ye
but understand. Within its grasp We have ordained all the good of the heavens and the earth, such
that no good shall be made manifest but that it proceedeth therefrom. Thus have We made it the
source and treasury of all good both aforetime and hereafter. Say: The rivers of divine wisdom and
utterance which ﬂowed through the Tablets of God are joined to this Most Great Ocean, could ye
but perceive it, and whatever hath been set forth in His Books hath attained its ﬁnal
consummation in this most exalted Word—a Word shining above the horizon of the Will of the All-
Glorious in this Revelation which hath ﬁlled with delight all things seen and unseen.
Erelong shall God draw forth, out of the bosom of power, the hands of ascendancy and might—
hands who will arise to win victory for this Youth and who will purge mankind from the
deﬁlement of the outcast and the ungodly. These hands will gird up their loins to champion the
Faith of God, and will, in My name the Self-Subsistent, the Mighty, subdue the peoples and
kindreds of the earth. They will enter the cities and will inspire with fear the hearts of all their
inhabitants. Such are the evidences of the might of God; how fearful, how vehement is His might,
and how justly doth He wield it! He, verily, ruleth and transcendeth all who are in the heavens
and on the earth, and revealeth what He desireth according to a prescribed measure.
Should any one of them be called upon to confront all the hosts of creation, he would
assuredly prevail through the ascendancy of My Will. This, verily, is a proof of My power, though
My creatures comprehend it not. This, verily, is a sign of My sovereignty, though My subjects
understand it not. This, verily, is a token of My command, though My servants perceive it not.
This, verily, is an evidence of Mine ascendancy, though none amongst the people is truly thankful
for it, save those whose eyes God hath illumined with the light of His knowledge, whose hearts
He hath made the repository of His Revelation, and upon whose shoulders He hath placed the
weight of His Cause. These shall inhale the fragrances of the All-Merciful from the garment of
His Name, and shall rejoice at all times in the signs and verses of their Lord. As for those who
disbelieve in God, and join partners with Him, they shall indeed incur His wrath, shall be cast into
the Fire, and shall be made to dwell, fearful and dismayed, in its depths. Thus do We expound Our
verses, and make plain the truth with clear proofs, that perchance the people may reﬂect upon
the signs of their Lord.
O Living Temple! We have, in very truth, appointed Thee to be the sign of My majesty amidst
all that hath been and all that shall be, and have ordained Thee to be the emblem of My Cause
betwixt the heavens and the earth, through My word “Be”, and it is!
O First Letter of this Temple, betokening the Essence of Divinity![3] We have made thee the
treasury of My Will and the repository of My Purpose unto all who are in the kingdoms of
revelation and creation. This is but a token of the grace of Him Who is the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting.
O Second Letter of this Temple, betokening My name, the Almighty! We have made thee the
manifestation of Our sovereignty and the dayspring of Our Names. Potent am I to fulﬁl that which
My tongue speaketh.
O Third Letter of this Temple, betokening My name, the All-Bountiful! We have made thee
the dawning-place of Our bounty amidst Our creatures and the fountainhead of Our generosity
amidst Our people. Powerful am I in My dominion. Nothing whatsoever of all that hath been32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39

created in the heavens or on the earth can escape My knowledge, and I am the True One, the
Knower of things unseen.
Send down out of the clouds of Thy generosity that which shall enrich all created things, and
withhold not Thy favours from the world of being. Thou, verily, art the All-Bountiful in the
heaven of Thine eternity, and the Lord of inﬁnite grace unto all who inhabit the kingdom of
names. Look not upon the people and the things they possess; look rather upon the wonders of
Thy gifts and favours. Gather then Thy servants beneath Thy shade that shadoweth all mankind.
Stretch forth the hand of bounty over all creation, and the ﬁngers of bestowal over all existence.
This, verily, is that which beseemeth Thee, though the people understand it not. Whosoever
turneth his face towards Thee doeth so by Thy grace, and as to him who turneth away, Thy Lord,
in truth, is independent of all created things. Unto this bear witness His true and devoted servants.
Erelong shall God raise up, through Thee, hands of indomitable strength and arms of
invincible might, who will come forth from behind the veils, will render the All-Merciful victorious
amongst the peoples of the world, and will raise so mighty a cry as to cause all hearts to tremble
with fear. Thus hath it been decreed in a Written Tablet. Such shall be the ascendancy which these
souls will evince that consternation and dismay will seize all the dwellers of the earth.
Beware lest ye shed the blood of anyone. Unsheathe the sword of your tongue from the
scabbard of utterance, for therewith ye can conquer the citadels of men’s hearts. We have
abolished the law to wage holy war against each other. God’s mercy, hath, verily, encompassed all
created things, if ye do but understand. Aid ye your Lord, the God of Mercy, with the sword of
understanding. Keener indeed is it, and more ﬁnely tempered, than the sword of utterance, were
ye but to reﬂect upon the words of your Lord. Thus have the hosts of Divine Revelation been sent
down by God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, and thus have the armies of divine inspiration
been made manifest from the Source of command, as bidden by God, the All-Glorious, the Best-
Beloved.
Say: The measure of all created things hath been appointed in this concealed and manifest
Temple, wherein lie enshrined the knowledge of the heavens and the earth, and of all things past
and future. The ﬁnger of God’s handiwork hath inscribed upon this Tablet that which the wisest
and most learned of men are powerless to fathom, and hath created therein temples inscrutable to
all save His own Self, could ye but apprehend this truth. Blessed be the one who readeth it, who
pondereth its contents, and who is numbered with them that comprehend!
Say: Naught is seen in My temple but the Temple of God, and in My beauty but His Beauty,
and in My being but His Being, and in My self but His Self, and in My movement but His
Movement, and in My acquiescence but His Acquiescence, and in My pen but His Pen, the Mighty,
the All-Praised. There hath not been in My soul but the Truth, and in Myself naught could be seen
but God.
Beware lest ye speak of duality in regard to My Self, for all the atoms of the earth proclaim
that there is none other God but Him, the One, the Single, the Mighty, the Loving. From the
beginning that hath no beginning I have proclaimed, from the realm of eternity, that I am God,
none other God is there save Me, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting; and unto the end that hath
no end I shall proclaim, amidst the kingdom of names, that I am God, none other God is there
beside Me, the All-Glorious, the Best-Beloved. Say: Lordship is My Name, whereof I have created
manifestations in the world of being, while We Ourself remain sanctiﬁed above them, would ye
but ponder this truth. And Godhead is My Name, whereof We have created exponents whose
power shall encompass the people of the earth and make them true worshippers of God, could ye
but recognize it. Thus should ye regard all Our Names, if ye be endued with insight.
O Fourth Letter of this Temple, betokening the attribute of Grace! We have made thee the
manifestation of grace betwixt earth and heaven. From thee have We generated all grace in the
contingent world, and unto thee shall We cause it to return. And from thee shall We manifest it
again, through a word of Our command. Potent am I to accomplish whatsoever I desire through My
word “Be”, and it is! Every grace that appeareth in the world of being hath originated from thee,
and unto thee shall it return. This, verily, is what hath been ordained in a Tablet which We have40
41
42
43
44
45
46

preserved behind the veil of glory and concealed from mortal eyes. Well is it with them that
deprive themselves not of this conferred and unfailing grace.
Say: In this day, the fertilizing winds of the grace of God have passed over all things. Every
creature hath been endowed with all the potentialities it can carry. And yet the peoples of the
world have denied this grace! Every tree hath been endowed with the choicest fruits, every ocean
enriched with the most luminous gems. Man, himself, hath been invested with the gifts of
understanding and knowledge. The whole creation hath been made the recipient of the revelation
of the All-Merciful, and the earth the repository of things inscrutable to all except God, the Truth,
the Knower of things unseen. The time is approaching when every created thing will have cast its
burden. Gloriﬁed be God Who hath vouchsafed this grace that encompasseth all things, whether
seen or unseen! Thus have We created the whole earth anew in this day, yet most of the people
have failed to perceive it. Say: The grace of God can never be adequately understood; how much
less can His own Self, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting, be comprehended!
O Temple of the Cause! Grieve not if Thou ﬁndest none ready to receive Thy gifts. Thou wast
created for My sake; occupy Thyself therefore with My praise amidst My servants. This is that
which hath been ordained for Thee in the Preserved Tablet. Having found upon the earth many a
soiled hand, We sanctiﬁed the hem of Thy garment from the profanity of their touch and placed it
beyond the reach of the ungodly. Be patient in the Cause of Thy Lord, for erelong shall He raise
up sanctiﬁed hearts and illumined eyes who shall ﬂee from every quarter unto Thine all-
encompassing and boundless grace.
O Temple of God! No sooner had the hosts of Divine Revelation been sent down by the Lord
of all names and attributes bearing the banners of His signs, than the exponents of doubt and
fancy were put to ﬂight. They disbelieved in the clear tokens of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting, and rose up against Him in enmity and opposition. Amongst them were those who
claimed: “These are not clear verses from God, nor do they proceed from an innate and untaught
nature.” Thus do the unbelievers seek to remedy the sickness of their hearts, utterly heedless that
they thus render themselves accursed of all who dwell in heaven and on earth.
Say: The Holy Spirit Itself hath been generated through the agency of a single letter revealed
by this Most Great Spirit, if ye be of them that comprehend. And that innate and untaught nature
in its essence is called into being by the verses of God, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the
Best-Beloved. Say: This nature prideth itself in its relation to Our transcendent Truth, whilst We,
for Our part, glory neither in it nor in aught else, for all beside Myself hath been created through
the potency of My word, could ye but understand.
Say: We have revealed Our verses in nine different modes. Each one of them bespeaketh the
sovereignty of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting. A single one of them sufﬁceth for a
proof unto all who are in the heavens and on the earth; yet the people, for the most part, persist
in their heedlessness. Should it be Our wish, We would reveal them in countless other modes.
Say: O people! Fear ye God, and allow not your tongues to utter, in their deceitfulness, that
which displeaseth Him. Stand abashed before the One Who, as ye well know, hath created you out
of a drop of water.[4] Say: We have created all that are in heaven and on earth in the nature made
by God. Whosoever turneth unto this blessed Countenance shall manifest the potentialities of that
inborn nature, and whosoever remaineth veiled therefrom shall be deprived of this invisible and
all-encompassing grace. Verily, there is naught from which Our favour hath been withheld,
inasmuch as We have dealt equitably in the fashioning of each and all, and by a word of Our
mouth presented unto them the trust of Our love. They that have accepted it are indeed safe and
secure, and are numbered among those who are immune from the terrors of this Day. Those,
however, who have rejected it have, in truth, disbelieved in God, the Help in Peril, the Self-
Subsisting. Thus do We distinguish between the people and pronounce judgement upon them. We,
of a certainty, have the power to discern.
Say: The Word of God can never be confounded with the words of His creatures. It is, in truth,
the King of words, even as He is Himself the sovereign Lord of all, and His Cause transcendeth all
that was and all that shall be. Enter, O people, the City of Certitude wherein the throne of your
Lord, the All-Merciful, hath been established. Thus biddeth you the Pen of the All-Glorious, as a47
48
49
50
51
52
53

token of His unfailing grace. Haply ye may not make His Revelation a cause of dissension
amongst you.
Among the inﬁdels are those who have repudiated His Self and risen up against His Cause,
and who claim that these divine verses are contrived. Such also were the objections of the deniers
of old, who now implore deliverance from the Fire. Say: Woe betide you for the idle words that
proceed from your mouths! If these verses be indeed contrived, then by what proof have ye
believed in God? Produce it, if ye be men of understanding! Whensoever We revealed Our clear
verses unto such men, they rejected them, and whensoever they beheld that which the combined
forces of the earth are powerless to produce, they pronounced it sorcery.
What aileth this people that they speak of that which they understand not? They raise the
same objections as did the followers of the Qur’án when their Lord came unto them with His
Cause. They, verily, are a rejected people. They hindered others from appearing before Him Who
is the Ancient Beauty, and from sharing the bread of His loved ones. “Approach them not,” one
was even heard to say, “for they cast a spell upon the people and lead them astray from the path
of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.” By the righteousness of the one true God! He who is
incapable of speaking in Our presence is uttering such words as none among the former
generations hath ever spoken, and hath committed such acts as none of the unbelievers of bygone
ages hath ever committed.
The very words and deeds of these men bear eloquent testimony to the truth of My words, if
ye be of them that judge with fairness. Whosoever attributeth the verses of God to sorcery hath
not believed in any of His Messengers, hath lived and laboured in vain, and is accounted of those
who speak that of which they have no knowledge. Say: O servant! Fear God, thy Creator and thy
Fashioner, and transgress not against Him, but judge with fairness and act with justice. Those
whom the Lord hath endued with knowledge shall ﬁnd, in the very objections raised by the
unbelievers, conclusive proofs to invalidate their claims and vindicate the truth of this manifest
Light. Say: Would ye repeat that which the unbelievers uttered when a Message came unto them
from their Lord? Woe betide you, O assemblage of foolish ones, and blighted be your works!
O Ancient Beauty! Turn aside from the unbelievers and that which they possess, and waft
over all created things the sweet savours of the remembrance of Thy Beloved, the Exalted, the
Great. This remembrance quickeneth the world of being and reneweth the temples of all created
things. Say: He, verily, hath established Himself upon the Throne of might and glory. Whosoever
desireth to gaze upon His countenance, lo, behold Him standing before thee! Blessed be the Lord
Who hath revealed Himself in this shining and luminous Beauty. Whosoever desireth to hearken
unto His melodies, lo, hear them rising from His resplendent and wondrous lips! And unto
whosoever desireth to be illumined by the splendours of His light, say: Seek the court of His
presence, for God hath verily granted you leave to approach it, as a token of His grace unto all
mankind.
Say: O people! We shall put to you a question in all truthfulness, taking God for a witness
between you and Us. He, verily, is the Defender of the righteous. Appear, then, before His Throne
of glory and make reply with justice and fair-mindedness. Is it God Who is potent to achieve His
purpose, or is it ye who enjoy such authority? Is it He Who is truly unconstrained, as ye imply
when ye say that He doeth what He pleaseth and shall not be asked of His doings, or is it ye who
wield such power, and who merely make such assertions out of blind imitation, as did your
forebears at the appearance of every other Messenger of God?
If He be truly unconstrained, behold then how He hath sent down the Manifestation of His
Cause with verses which naught in the heavens or on the earth can withstand! Such hath been the
manner of their revelation that they have neither peer nor likeness in the world of being, as ye
yourselves beheld and heard when once the Daystar of the world shone forth above the horizon of
‘Iráq with manifest dominion. All things attain their consummation in the divine verses, and these
indeed are the verses of God, the Sovereign Lord, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the Almighty.
Beyond this, He hath been made manifest as the Bearer of a Cause whose sovereign might is
acknowledged by all created things, and this none can deny save the sinners and the ungodly.54
55
56
57
58
59

Say: O people! Is it your wish to conceal the beauty of the Sun behind the veils of your own
selﬁsh desires, or to prevent the Spirit from raising its melodies within this sanctiﬁed and
luminous breast? Fear ye God, and contend not with Him Who representeth the Godhead. Dispute
not with the One at Whose bidding the letter “B” was created and joined with its mighty
foundation.[5] Believe in the Messengers of God and His sovereign might, and in the Self of God
and His majesty. Follow not those who have repudiated what they had once believed, and who
have sought for themselves a station after their own fancy; these, truly, are of the ungodly. Bear
ye witness unto that whereunto God Himself hath borne witness, that the company of His
favoured ones may be illumined by the words that issue from your lips. Say: We, verily, believe in
that which was revealed unto the Apostles of old, in that which hath been revealed, by the power
of truth, unto ‘Alí,2 and in that which is now being revealed from His Throne of glory. Thus doth
your Lord instruct you, as a sign of His favour and as a token of His grace that encompasseth all
the worlds.
O Feet of this Temple! We, verily, have wrought you of iron. Stand ﬁrm with such constancy
in the Cause of your Lord as to cause the feet of every severed soul to be strengthened in the path
of God, the Almighty, the All-Wise. Beware lest the storms of enmity and hatred, or the blasts of
the workers of iniquity, cause you to stumble. Be immovable in the Faith of God, and waver not.
We, verily, have called you forth by virtue of that Name which is the source of all steadfastness,
and by the grace of each one of Our most excellent Names as revealed unto all who are in heaven
and on earth. Erelong shall We bring into being through you other feet, ﬁrm and steadfast, which
shall walk unwaveringly in Our path, even should they be assailed by hosts as formidable as the
combined forces of the former and latter generations. In truth, We hold all grace in the hollow of
Our hand, and bestow it as We please upon Our favoured servants. Time and again have We
vouchsafed unto you Our favours, that ye may offer such thanks unto your Lord as to cause the
tongues of all created things to speak forth in praise of Me, the All-Merciful, the Most
Compassionate.
Arise to serve this Cause through a might and a power born of Us. Disclose, then, unto the
servants of God all that the Spirit of God, the sovereign Lord, the Incomparable, the All-Glorious,
the All-Wise, hath imparted unto Thee. Say: O people! Will ye turn away from Him Who is the
Eternal Truth, and choose instead him whom We have created out of a mere handful of clay? To
do so is to inﬂict a grievous injustice upon yourselves, if ye be of them that reﬂect upon the verses
of your Lord. Say: O people! Cleanse your hearts and your eyes, that ye may recognize your Maker
in this holy and luminous attire. Say: The celestial Youth hath ascended the Throne of glory, made
manifest His independent sovereignty, and now voiceth, in the most sweet and wondrous accents,
this call betwixt earth and heaven: “O peoples of the earth! Wherefore have ye disbelieved in your
Lord, the All-Merciful, and turned aside from Him Who is the Beauty of the All-Glorious? By the
righteousness of God! This is His Hidden Secret, Who hath risen from the dayspring of creation;
and this is His cherished Beauty, Who hath shone forth above the horizon of this heavenly garden,
invested with the sovereignty of God, the Help in Peril, the All-Glorious, the All-Subduing, the
Almighty.”
O Temple of Holiness! We, verily, have cleansed Thy breast from the whisperings of the
people and sanctiﬁed it from earthly allusions, that the light of My beauty may appear therein
and be reﬂected in the mirrors of all the worlds. Thus have We singled Thee out above all that
hath been created in the heavens and the earth, and above all that hath been decreed in the
realms of revelation and creation, and chosen Thee for Our own Self. This is but an evidence of the
bounty which God hath vouchsafed unto Thee, a bounty which shall last until the Day that hath
no end in this contingent world. It shall endure so long as God, the Supreme King, the Help in
Peril, the Mighty, the Wise, shall endure. For the Day of God is none other but His own Self, Who
hath appeared with the power of truth. This is the Day that shall not be followed by night, nor
shall it be bounded by any praise, would that ye might understand!
O Breast of this Temple! We, verily, have caused all things to mirror forth thy reality, and
made thee as a mirror of Our own Self. Shed, then, upon the breasts of all created beings the
splendours of the light of thy Lord, that they may be freed from all allusions and limitations. Thus60
61
62
63
64

hath the Daystar of wisdom shone forth above the horizon of the Pen of the Eternal King. Blessed
are those who perceive it! Through thee have We created other sanctiﬁed breasts, and unto thee
shall We cause them to return, as a token of Our grace unto thee and unto Our favoured servants.
Erelong shall We bring into being through thee men with sanctiﬁed and illumined breasts, who
will testify to naught save My beauty and show forth naught but the resplendent light of My
countenance. These shall in truth be the mirrors of My Names amidst all created things.
O Temple of Holiness! We, verily, have made Thine inmost heart the treasury of all the
knowledge of past and future ages, and the dawning-place of Our own knowledge which We have
ordained for the dwellers of earth and heaven, that all creation may partake of the outpourings of
Thy grace and may attain, through the wonders of Thy knowledge, unto the recognition of God,
the Exalted, the Powerful, the Great. In truth, that knowledge which belongeth unto Mine own
Essence is such as none hath ever attained or will ever grasp, nor shall any heart be capable of
bearing its weight. Were but a single word of this knowledge to be disclosed, the hearts of all men
would be ﬁlled with consternation, the foundations of all things would crumble into ruin, and the
feet of even the wisest among men would be made to slip.
Within the treasury of Our Wisdom there lieth unrevealed a knowledge, one word of which, if
We chose to divulge it to mankind, would cause every human being to recognize the Manifestation
of God and to acknowledge His omniscience, would enable every one to discover the secrets of all
the sciences, and to attain so high a station as to ﬁnd himself wholly independent of all past and
future learning. Other knowledges We do as well possess, not a single letter of which We can
disclose, nor do We ﬁnd humanity able to hear even the barest reference to their meaning. Thus
have We informed you of the knowledge of God, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Were We to ﬁnd
worthy vessels, We would impart unto them the treasures of hidden meanings and apprise them
of a knowledge, one letter of which would encompass all created things.
O Inmost Heart of this Temple! We have made thee the dawning-place of Our knowledge and
the dayspring of Our wisdom unto all who are in heaven and on earth. From thee have We caused
all sciences to appear, and unto thee shall We cause them to return. And from thee shall We bring
them forth a second time. Such, indeed, is Our promise, and potent are We to effect Our purpose.
Erelong shall We bring into being through thee exponents of new and wondrous sciences, of
potent and effective crafts, and shall make manifest through them that which the heart of none of
Our servants hath yet conceived. Thus do We bestow upon whom We will whatsoever We desire,
and thus do We withdraw from whom We will what We had once bestowed. Even so do We ordain
whatsoever We please through Our behest.
Say: Should We choose, at one time, to shed the radiance of Our loving providence upon the
mirrors of all things, and, at another, to withhold from them the splendours of Our light, this verily
lieth within Our power, and none hath the right to ask “why” or “wherefore”. For We are potent
indeed to achieve Our purpose, and render no account for that which We bring to pass; and none
can doubt this save those who join partners with God and question His Truth. Say: Nothing can
withstand the power of Our might or interrupt the course of Our command. We exalt whomsoever
We please unto the Realm of supernal might and glory, and, should We so desire, cause the same
to sink into the lowest abyss of degradation.
O dwellers of the earth! Would ye contend that if We raise up a soul unto the Sadratu’l-
Muntahá,[6] it shall then cease to be subject to the power of Our sovereignty and dominion? Nay,
by Mine own Self! Should it be Our wish, We would return it to the dust in less than the twinkling
of an eye. Consider a tree: Behold how We plant it in a garden, and nourish it with the waters of
Our loving care; and how, when it hath grown tall and mature, and brought forth verdant leaves
and goodly fruits, lo, We send forth the tempestuous gales of Our decree, and lay it uprooted and
prostrate upon the face of the earth. So hath it been Our way with all things, and so shall it be in
this day. Such, in truth, are the matchless wonders of Our immutable method—a method which
hath ever governed, and shall continue to govern, all things, if ye be of them that perceive. None,
however, knoweth the wisdom thereof save God, the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the All-Wise.
Would ye gainsay, O people, the very thing that your eyes behold? Woe unto you, O
assemblage of deniers! That which alone is exempt from change is His own Self, the All-Merciful,65
66
67
68
69
70

the Most Compassionate, were ye to gaze with the eye of insight, while all else beside Him can be
altered by an act of His Will. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the Almighty, the All-Wise.
O people! Dispute not concerning My Cause, for ye shall never fathom the manifold wisdom
of your Lord, nor shall ye ever gauge the knowledge of Him Who is the All-Glorious, the All-
Pervading. Whosoever layeth claim to have known His Essence is without doubt among the most
ignorant of all people. Every atom in the universe would charge such a man with imposture, and
to this beareth witness My tongue which speaketh naught but the truth. Magnify My Cause and
promulgate My teachings and commandments, for none other course beside this shall beseem you,
and no other path shall ever lead unto Him. Would that ye might heed Our counsel!
O Living Temple! We have made Thee the Dayspring of each one of Our most excellent titles,
the Dawning-Place of each one of Our most august attributes, and the Fountainhead of each one
of Our manifold virtues unto the denizens of earth and heaven. Thereafter have We raised Thee
up in Our own image betwixt the heavens and the earth, and ordained Thee to be the sign of Our
glory unto all who are in the realms of revelation and creation, that My servants may follow in
Thy footsteps, and be of them who are guided aright. We have appointed Thee the Tree of grace
and bounty unto the dwellers of both the heavens and the earth. Well is it with them who seek
the shelter of Thy shade and who draw nigh unto Thy Self, the omnipotent Protector of the
worlds.
Say: We have made each one of Our Names a wellspring from which We have caused the
streams of divine wisdom and understanding to gush forth and ﬂow in the garden of Our Cause—
streams whose number none can reckon save Thy Lord, the Most Holy, the Omnipotent, the
Omniscient, the All-Wise. Say: We have generated all Letters from the Point and have caused
them to return unto It, and We have sent It down again in the form of a human temple. All glory
be unto the Author of this incomparable and wondrous handiwork! Erelong shall We unfold and
expound It again, in Our name, the All-Glorious. This is indeed a token of Our grace, and I, truly,
am the Most Bountiful, the Ancient of Days.
We have brought forth all Lights from the Orb of Our name, the True One, have caused them
to return unto It, and have again made them manifest in the form of a human temple. All glory be
unto the Lord of strength, might, and power! None can withstand the operation of My will or the
exercise of My might. I am He Who hath raised up all creatures through a word of My mouth, and
My power is, in truth, equal to My purpose.
Say: It is in Our power, should We wish it, to cause all created things to expire in an instant,
and, with the next, to endue them again with life. The knowledge thereof, however, is with God
alone, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. It is in Our power, should We wish it, to enable a speck
of ﬂoating dust to generate, in less than the twinkling of an eye, suns of inﬁnite, of unimaginable
splendour, to cause a dewdrop to develop into vast and numberless oceans, to infuse into every
letter such a force as to empower it to unfold all the knowledge of past and future ages. This, in
truth, is a matter simple of accomplishment. Such have been the evidences of My power from the
beginning that hath no beginning until the end that hath no end. My creatures, however, have
been oblivious of My power, have repudiated My sovereignty, and contended with Mine own Self,
the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Say: Of all that lieth between heaven and earth, naught can stir except by My leave, and unto
My Kingdom none can ascend save at My behest. My creatures, however, have remained veiled
from My might and My sovereignty, and are numbered with the heedless. Say: Naught is seen in
My revelation but the Revelation of God, and in My might but His Might, could ye but know it.
Say: My creatures are even as the leaves of a tree. They proceed from the tree, and depend upon it
for their existence, yet remain oblivious of their root and origin. We draw such similitudes for the
sake of Our discerning servants that perchance they may transcend a mere plant-like level of
existence and attain unto true maturity in this resistless and immovable Cause. Say: My creatures
are even as the ﬁsh of the deep. Their life dependeth upon the water, and yet they remain
unaware of that which, by the grace of an omniscient and omnipotent Lord, sustaineth their very
existence. Indeed, their heedlessness is such that were they asked concerning the water and its
properties, they would prove entirely ignorant. Thus do We set forth comparisons and similitudes,71
72
73
74
75
76

that perchance the people may turn unto Him Who is the Object of the adoration of the entire
creation.
O people! Fear God, and disbelieve not in Him Whose grace hath surrounded all things, Whose
mercy hath pervaded the contingent world, and the sovereign potency of Whose Cause hath
encompassed both your inner and your outer beings, both your beginning and your end. Stand ye
in awe of the Lord, and be of them that act uprightly. Beware lest ye be accounted among those
who allow the verses of their Lord to pass them by unheard and unrecognized; these, truly, are of
the wayward.
Say: Would ye worship him who neither heareth nor seeth, and who is of a truth the most
abject and wayward of all God’s servants? Wherefore have ye failed to follow the One Who hath
come unto you from the Source of Divine Command bearing the tidings of God, the Most Exalted,
the Most Great? O people! Be not like unto those who entered before Our throne, and yet failed to
perceive or comprehend; these are indeed a contemptible people. We recited unto them verses that
would enrapture the dwellers of the heavenly Dominion and the inmates of the Kingdom on high,
and yet they departed veiled therefrom, and hearkened rather unto the voice of him who is but a
servant of God and a mere creation of His Will. Thus do We impart unto you that which shall
guide you towards the path of God’s favoured ones.
How many those who entered within the Abode of Paradise, the Seat wherein the throne of
God had been established, and stood before their Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most Great, only to
inquire about the four Gates or of some Imám of the Islamic Faith![7] Such was the state of these
souls, if ye be of them that comprehend. It is even as ye witness in the present day: Those who
have disbelieved in God and joined partners with Him cling to a single one of Our Names, and are
debarred from recognizing Him Who is the Creator of all Names. We testify that such men are of a
truth amongst the people of the Fire. They ask the sun to expound the words of the shadow, and
the True One to explain the utterances of His creatures, could ye but perceive it! Say: O people!
The sun offereth naught save the effulgence of its own light and that which appeareth therefrom,
whilst all else seek illumination from its rays. Fear God, and be not of the ignorant! Among them
also were those who inquired of the darkness about the light. Say: Open thine eyes, that thou
mayest behold the brightness which hath visibly enveloped the earth! This, verily, is a light which
hath risen and shone forth above the horizon of the Dayspring of divine knowledge with manifest
radiance. Would ye ask the Jews whether Jesus was the True One from God, or the idols if
Muḥammad was an Apostle of His Lord, or inquire from the people of the Qur’án as to Him Who
was the Remembrance of God, the Most Exalted, the Most Great?
Say: O people! Cast away, before the splendours of this Revelation, the things that ye possess,
and cleave to that which God hath bidden you observe. Such is His command unto you, and He,
verily, is best able to command. By My Beauty! By those words which I have revealed, Myself is
not intended, but rather He Who will come after Me. To it is witness God, the All-Knowing. Deal
not with Him as ye have dealt with Me. Do not object, when the verses of God are sent down unto
you from the Court of My favour, saying, “these do not proceed from an innate and untaught
nature”, for that nature itself hath been created by My word and circleth round Me, if ye be of
them that apprehend this truth. Inhale from the utterances of your Lord, the All-Merciful, the
sweet smell of the garment of inner meanings, which hath been diffused throughout the entire
creation and hath shed its fragrance over all created things. Happy are those who perceive it and
hasten unto God with radiant hearts.
O Living Temple! We, verily, have made Thee a mirror unto the kingdom of names, that Thou
mayest be, amidst all mankind, a sign of My sovereignty, a herald unto My presence, a summoner
unto My beauty, and a guide unto My straight and perspicuous Path. We have exalted Thy Name
among Our servants as a bounty from Our presence. I, verily, am the All-Bountiful, the Ancient of
Days. We have, moreover, adorned Thee with the ornament of Our own Self, and have imparted
unto Thee Our Word, that Thou mayest ordain in this contingent world whatsoever Thou willest
and accomplish whatsoever Thou pleasest. We have destined for Thee all the good of the heavens
and of the earth, and decreed that none may attain unto a portion thereof unless he entereth
beneath Thy shadow, as bidden by Thy Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. We have77
78
79
80
81

conferred upon Thee the Staff of authority and the Writ of judgement, that Thou mayest test the
wisdom of every command. We have caused the oceans of inner meaning and explanation to surge
from Thy heart in remembrance of Thy Lord, the God of mercy, that Thou mayest render thanks
and praise unto Him and be of those who are truly thankful. We have singled Thee out from
amongst all Our creatures, and have appointed Thee as the Manifestation of Our own Self unto all
who are in the heavens and on the earth.
Bring then into being, by Our leave, resplendent mirrors and exalted letters that shall testify
to Thy sovereignty and dominion, bear witness to Thy might and glory, and be the manifestations
of Thy Names amidst mankind. We have caused Thee again to be the Origin and the Creator of all
mirrors, even as We brought them forth from Thee aforetime. And We shall cause Thee to return
unto Mine own Self, even as We called Thee forth in the beginning. Thy Lord, verily, is the
Unconstrained, the All-Powerful, the All-Compelling. Warn, then, these mirrors, once they have
been made manifest, lest they swell with pride before their Creator and Fashioner when He
appeareth amongst them, or let the trappings of leadership debar them from bowing in submission
before God, the Almighty, the All-Beauteous.
Say: O concourse of mirrors! Ye are but a creation of My will and have come to exist by virtue
of My command. Beware lest ye deny the verses of My Lord, and be of them who have wrought
injustice and are numbered with the lost. Beware lest ye cling unto that which ye possess, or take
pride in your fame and renown. That which behoveth you is to wholly detach yourselves from all
that is in the heavens and on the earth. Thus hath it been ordained by Him Who is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty.
O Temple of My Cause! Say: Should I wish to transform, in a single moment, all things into
mirrors of My Names, this undoubtedly is in My power, how much more in the power of My Lord,
Who hath called Me into being through His all-compelling and inscrutable command. And should I
choose to revolutionize the entire creation in the twinkling of an eye, this assuredly is possible
unto Me, how much more unto that sovereign Purpose enshrined in the Will of God, My Lord and
the Lord of all the worlds.
Say: O ye manifestations of My Names! Should ye offer up all that ye possess, nay your very
lives, in the path of God, and invoke Him to the number of the grains of sand, the drops of rain,
and the waves of the sea, and yet oppose the Manifestation of His Cause at the time of His
appearance, your works shall in no wise be mentioned before God. Should ye, however, neglect all
righteous works and yet choose to believe in Him in these days, God perchance will put away
your sins. He, verily, is the All-Glorious, the Most Bountiful. Thus doth the Lord inform you of His
purpose, that haply ye may not wax proud before the One through Whom whatsoever hath been
revealed from all eternity hath been conﬁrmed. Happy is he who approacheth this Most Sublime
Vision, and woe to them that turn aside!
How numerous those who expend all their wealth in the path of God, and whom We ﬁnd, at
the hour of His Revelation, to be of the rebellious and the froward! How many those who keep the
fast in the daytime, only to protest against the One by Whose very command the ordinance of the
fast was ﬁrst established! Such men are, in truth, of the ignorant. And how many those who
subsist on the coarsest bread, who take for their only seat the grass of the ﬁeld, and who undergo
every manner of hardship, merely to maintain their superiority in the eyes of men! Thus do We
expose their deeds, that this may serve as a warning unto others. These are the ones who subject
themselves to all manner of austerities before the gaze of others in the hope of perpetuating their
names, whilst in reality no mention shall remain of them save in the curses and imprecations of
the dwellers of earth and heaven.
Say: Would it proﬁt you in the least if, as ye fondly imagine, your names were to endure?
Nay, by the Lord of all worlds! Was the idol ‘Uzzá[8] made any greater by this, that its name lived
on amidst the worshippers of names? Nay, by Him Who is the Self of God, the All-Glorious, the
All-Compelling! Should your names fade from every mortal mind, and yet God be well pleased
with you, ye will indeed be numbered among the treasures of His name, the Most Hidden. Thus
have We sent down Our verses that they may attract you unto the Source of all Lights, and
acquaint you with the purpose of your Lord, the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Abstain, then, from all82
83
84
85
86
87

that hath been forbidden unto you in the Book, and eat of the lawful things which God hath
provided for your sustenance. Deprive not yourselves of His goodly bestowals, for He, verily, is the
Most Generous, the Lord of grace abounding. Subject not yourselves to excessive hardships, but
follow the way We have made plain unto you through Our luminous verses and perspicuous
proofs, and be not of the negligent.
O concourse of divines! It is not yours to boast if ye abstain from drinking wine and from
similar transgressions which have been forbidden you in the Book, for should ye commit such
deeds, the dignity of your station would then be tainted in the eyes of the people, your affairs
would be disrupted, and your name disgraced and dishonoured. Nay, your true and abiding glory
resideth in submission to the Word of Him Who is the Eternal Truth, and in your inward and
outward detachment from aught else besides God, the All-Compelling, the Almighty. Great is the
blessedness of that divine that hath not allowed knowledge to become a veil between him and the
One Who is the Object of all knowledge, and who, when the Self-Subsisting appeared, hath turned
with a beaming face towards Him. He, in truth, is numbered with the learned. The inmates of
Paradise seek the blessing of his breath, and his lamp sheddeth its radiance over all who are in
heaven and on earth. He, verily, is numbered with the inheritors of the Prophets. He that
beholdeth him hath, verily, beheld the True One, and he that turneth towards him hath, verily,
turned towards God, the Almighty, the All-Wise.
O ye the dawning-places of knowledge! Beware that ye suffer not yourselves to become
changed, for as ye change, most men will, likewise, change. This, verily, is an injustice unto
yourselves and unto others. Unto this beareth witness every man of discernment and insight. Ye
are even as a spring. If it be changed, so will the streams that branch out from it be changed. Fear
God, and be numbered with the godly. In like manner, if the heart of man be corrupted, his limbs
will also be corrupted. And similarly, if the root of a tree be corrupted, its branches, and its
offshoots, and its leaves, and its fruits, will be corrupted. Thus have We set forth similitudes for
your instruction, that perchance ye may not be debarred by the things ye possess from attaining
unto that which hath been destined for you by Him Who is the All-Glorious, the Most Bountiful.
It is indeed in Our power to take up a handful of dust and to adorn it with the vesture of Our
Names. This, however, would be but a sign of Our favour, and not an indication of any merit it
may have inherently possessed. Thus hath it been revealed in truth by Him Who is the Sovereign
Revealer, the All-Knowing. Consider the Black Stone,[9] which God hath made a point whereunto
all men turn in adoration. Hath this bounty been conferred upon it by virtue of its innate
excellence? Nay, by Mine own Self! Or doth such distinction stem from its intrinsic worth? Nay, by
Mine own Being, Whose Essence all creation hath failed to grasp!
Again, consider the Mosque of Aqṣá and the other places which We have made sanctuaries
unto the people in every land and region. The honour and distinction they enjoy is in no wise due
to their own merit, but stemmeth from their relation to Our Manifestations, Whom We have
appointed as the Daysprings of Our Revelation amidst mankind, if ye be of them that understand.
In this there lieth a wisdom inscrutable to all save God. Inquire, that He may graciously make
plain unto you His purpose. His knowledge, verily, embraceth all things. Detach yourselves, O
people, from the world and all its vanities, and heed not the call of such as have disbelieved in God
and joined partners with Him. Arise above the horizon of utterance to extol and praise your Lord,
the All-Merciful. This is that which God hath purposed for you; well is it with them who perceive
it.
Say: O people! We have commanded you in Our Tablets to strive, at the time of the promised
Revelation, to sanctify your souls from all names, and to purify them from all that hath been
created in the heavens or on the earth, that therein may appear the splendours of the Sun of
Truth which shineth forth above the horizon of the Will of your Lord, the Almighty, the Most
Great. We have, moreover, commanded you to cleanse your hearts from every trace of the love or
hate of the peoples of the world, lest aught should divert you from one course or impel you
towards another. This, verily, is among the weightiest counsels I have vouchsafed unto you in the
perspicuous Book, for whoso attacheth himself to either of these shall be prevented from attaining
a proper understanding of Our Cause. To this beareth witness every just and discerning soul.88
89
90
91
92

Ye, however, have broken the Covenant of God, forgotten His Testament, and at last turned
away from Him Whose appearance hath solaced the eyes of every true believer in the Divine
Unity. Lift up the veils and coverings that obscure your vision, and consider the testimonies of the
Prophets and Messengers, that haply ye may recognize the Cause of God in these days when the
Promised One hath come invested with a mighty sovereignty. Fear God, and debar yourselves not
from Him Who is the Dayspring of His signs. This shall, in truth, but proﬁt your own selves; as to
your Lord, He, verily, can afford to dispense with all creatures. From everlasting was He alone;
there was none else besides Him. He it is in Whose name the standard of Divine Unity hath been
planted upon the Sinai of the visible and invisible worlds, proclaiming that there is none other God
but Me, the Peerless, the Glorious, the Incomparable.
Behold, however, how those who are but a creation of His Will and Command have turned
aside from Him and have taken unto themselves a lord and master beside God; these, truly, are of
the wayward. The mention of the All-Merciful hath at all times been upon their lips, and yet
when He was manifested unto them through the power of truth they warred against Him.
Wretched indeed shall be the plight of such as have broken the Covenant of their Lord when the
Luminary of the world shone forth above the horizon of the Will of God, the Most Holy, the All-
Knowing, the All-Wise! It was against God that they unsheathed the swords of malice and hatred,
and yet they perceive it not. Methinks they remain dead and buried in the tombs of their selﬁsh
desires, though the breeze of God hath blown over all regions. They, truly, are wrapt in a dense
and grievous veil. And oft as the verses of God are rehearsed unto them, they persist in proud
disdain; it is as though they were devoid of all understanding, or had never heard the Melody of
God, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing.
Say: Alas for you! How can ye profess yourselves believers, when ye deny the verses of God,
the Almighty, the All-Knowing? Say: O people! Turn your faces unto your Lord, the All-Merciful.
Beware lest ye be veiled by aught that hath been revealed in the Bayán: It was, in truth, revealed
for no other purpose than to make mention of Me, the All-Powerful, the Most High, and had no
other object than My Beauty. The whole world hath been ﬁlled with My testimony, if ye be of
them that judge with fairness.
Had the Primal Point been someone else beside Me as ye claim, and had attained My
presence, verily He would have never allowed Himself to be separated from Me, but rather We
would have had mutual delights with each other in My Days. He, in truth, wept sore in His
remoteness from Me. He preceded Me that He might summon the people unto My Kingdom, as it
hath been set forth in the Tablets, could ye but perceive it! O would that men of hearing might be
found who could hear the voice of His lamentation in the Bayán bewailing that which hath
befallen Me at the hands of these heedless souls, bemoaning His separation from Me and giving
utterance to His longing to be united with Me, the Mighty, the Peerless. He, verily, beholdeth at
this moment His Best-Beloved amidst those who were created to attain His Day and to prostrate
themselves before Him, and yet who have inﬂicted in their tyranny such abasement upon Him as
the pen confesseth its inability to describe.
Say: O people! We, verily, summoned you, in Our former Revelation, unto this Scene of
transcendent glory, this Seat of stainless sanctity, and announced unto you the advent of the Days
of God. Yet, when the most great veil was rent asunder, and the Ancient Beauty came unto you in
the clouds of God’s decree, ye repudiated Him in Whom ye had believed aforetime. Woe betide
you, O company of inﬁdels! Fear ye God, and nullify not the truth with the things ye possess.
When the luminary of divine verses dawneth upon you from the horizon of the Pen of the King of
all names and attributes, fall ye prostrate upon your faces before God, the Lord of the Worlds. For
to bow down in adoration at the threshold of His door is indeed better for you than the worship of
both worlds, and to submit to His Revelation is more proﬁtable unto you than whatsoever hath
been created in the heavens and on the earth.
Say: O people! I admonish you wholly for the sake of God, and seek no reward from you. For
My recompense shall be with God, He Who hath brought Me into being, raised Me up by the
power of truth, and made Me the Source of His remembrance amidst His creatures. Hasten to
behold this divine and glorious Vision, the Spot wherein God hath established His Seat. Follow not93
94
95
96
97
98

that which the Evil One whispereth in your hearts, for he, verily, doth prompt you to walk after
your lusts and covetous desires, and hindereth you from treading the straight Path which this all-
embracing and all-compelling Cause hath opened.
Say: The Evil One hath appeared in such wise as the eye of creation hath never beheld. He
Who is the Beauty of the All-Merciful hath likewise been made manifest with an adorning the
like of which hath never been witnessed in the past. The Call of the All-Merciful hath been raised,
and behind it the call of Satan. Well is it with them who hearken unto the Voice of God, and turn
their faces towards His throne to behold a most holy and blessed Vision. For whoso cherisheth in
his heart the love of anyone beside Me, be it to the extent of a grain of mustard seed, shall be
unable to gain admittance into My Kingdom. To this beareth witness that which adorneth the
preamble of the Book of Existence, could ye but perceive it. Say: This is the Day whereon God’s
most great favour hath been made manifest. The voice of all who are in the heavens above and on
the earth below proclaimeth My Name, and singeth forth My praises, could ye but hear it!
O Temple of Divine Revelation! Sound the trumpet in My Name! O Temple of Divine
mysteries! Raise the clarion call of Thy Lord, the Unconditioned, the Unconstrained! O Maid of
Heaven! Step forth from the chambers of Paradise and announce unto the people of the world: By
the righteousness of God! He Who is the Best-Beloved of the worlds—He Who hath ever been the
Desire of every perceiving heart, the Object of the adoration of all that are in heaven and on earth,
and the Cynosure of the former and the latter generations—is now come!
Take heed lest ye hesitate in recognizing this resplendent Beauty when once He hath
appeared in the plenitude of His sovereign might and majesty. He, verily, is the True One, and all
else besides Him is as naught before a single one of His servants, and paleth into nothingness
when brought face to face with the revelation of His splendours. Hasten, then, to attain the living
waters of His grace, and be not of the negligent. As to him who hesitateth, though it be for less
than a moment, God shall verily bring his works to naught and return him to the seat of wrath;
wretched indeed is the abode of them that tarry!
Pope Pius IX
O Pope! Rend the veils asunder. He Who is the Lord of Lords is come overshadowed with
clouds, and the decree hath been fulﬁlled by God, the Almighty, the Unrestrained. Dispel the mists
through the power of thy Lord, and ascend unto the Kingdom of His names and attributes. Thus
hath the Pen of the Most High commanded thee at the behest of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-
Compelling. He, verily, hath again come down from Heaven even as He came down from it the
ﬁrst time. Beware that thou dispute not with Him even as the Pharisees disputed with Him
without a clear token or proof. On His right hand ﬂow the living waters of grace, and on His left
the choice Wine of justice, whilst before Him march the angels of Paradise, bearing the banners of
His signs. Beware lest any name debar thee from God, the Creator of earth and heaven. Leave
thou the world behind thee, and turn towards thy Lord, through Whom the whole earth hath been
illumined.
We have adorned the Kingdom with the ornament of Our name, the All-Glorious. Thus hath it
been decreed by God, the Fashioner of all things. Take heed lest thy vain imaginings withhold
thee, when once the Sun of Certitude hath shone forth above the horizon of the Utterance of thy
Lord, the Mighty, the Beneﬁcent. Dwellest thou in palaces whilst He Who is the King of
Revelation liveth in the most desolate of abodes? Leave them unto such as desire them, and set
thy face with joy and delight towards the Kingdom.
Say: O peoples of the earth! Destroy the abodes of negligence with the hands of power and
assurance, and raise up the mansions of true knowledge within your hearts, that the All-Merciful
may shed the radiance of His light upon them. Better is this for you than all whereon the sun
shineth, and unto this beareth witness He Who holdeth within His grasp the ultimate decree. The
Breeze of God hath been wafted over the world at the advent of the Desired One in His great
glory, whereupon every stone and clod of earth hath cried out: “The Promised One is come! The
Kingdom is God’s, the Mighty, the Gracious, the Forgiving.”99
100
101
102
103
104

Beware lest human learning debar thee from Him Who is the Supreme Object of all
knowledge, or lest the world deter thee from the One Who created it and set it upon its course.
Arise in the name of thy Lord, the God of Mercy, amidst the peoples of the earth, and seize thou
the Cup of Life with the hands of conﬁdence. First drink thou therefrom, and proffer it then to
such as turn towards it amongst the peoples of all faiths. Thus hath the Moon of Utterance risen
above the horizon of wisdom and understanding.
Tear asunder the veils of human learning lest they hinder thee from Him Who is My name,
the Self-Subsisting. Call thou to remembrance Him Who was the Spirit, Who, when He came, the
most learned of His age pronounced judgement against Him in His own country, whilst he who
was only a ﬁsherman believed in Him. Take heed, then, ye men of understanding heart! Thou, in
truth, art one of the suns of the heaven of His names. Guard thyself, lest darkness spread its veils
over thee, and fold thee away from His light. Ponder, then, that which hath been sent down in the
Book by thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.
Say: Still your pens, O concourse of divines, for lo, the shrill voice of the Pen of Glory hath
been lifted up between earth and heaven. Cast away all that ye possess and take fast hold of that
which We have revealed unto you with power and authority. The Hour that was concealed within
the knowledge of God hath struck, whereupon all the atoms of the earth have proclaimed: “The
Ancient of Days is come in His great glory! Hasten unto Him, O peoples of the earth, with humble
and contrite hearts.” Say: We, in truth, have given Ourself as a ransom for your own lives. Alas,
when We came once again, We beheld you ﬂeeing from Us, whereat the eye of My loving-
kindness wept sore over My people. Fear God, O ye that perceive.
Consider those who opposed the Son, when He came unto them with sovereignty and power.
How many the Pharisees who were waiting to behold Him, and were lamenting over their
separation from Him! And yet, when the fragrance of His coming was wafted over them, and His
beauty was unveiled, they turned aside from Him and disputed with Him. Thus do We impart
unto thee that which hath been recorded in the Books and Scriptures. None save a very few, who
were destitute of any power amongst men, turned towards His face. And yet today every man
endowed with power and invested with sovereignty prideth himself on His Name! In like manner,
consider how numerous, in these days, are the monks who, in My Name, have secluded
themselves in their churches, and who, when the appointed time was fulﬁlled, and We unveiled
Our beauty, knew Us not, though they call upon Me at eventide and at dawn. We behold them
clinging to My name, yet veiled from My Self. This, verily, is a strange thing.
Say: Take heed lest your devotions withhold you from Him Who is the object of all devotion,
or your worship debar you from Him Who is the object of all worship. Rend asunder the veils of
your idle fancies! This is your Lord, the Almighty, the All-Knowing, Who hath come to quicken
the world and unite all who dwell on earth. Turn unto the Dayspring of Revelation, O people, and
tarry not, be it for less than the twinkling of an eye. Read ye the Evangel and yet refuse to
acknowledge the All-Glorious Lord? This indeed beseemeth you not, O concourse of learned men!
Say: If ye deny this Revelation, by what proof have ye believed in God? Produce it then. Thus
hath the summons of God been sent down by the Pen of the Most High at the bidding of your
Lord, the Most Glorious, in this Tablet from whose horizon the splendour of His Light hath shone
forth. How many are My servants whose deeds have become veils between them and their own
selves, and who have been kept back thereby from drawing nigh unto God, He Who causeth the
winds to blow.
O concourse of monks! The fragrances of the All-Merciful have wafted over all creation.
Happy the man that hath forsaken his desires, and taken fast hold of guidance. He, indeed, is of
those who have attained unto the presence of God in this Day, a Day whereon commotions have
seized the dwellers of the earth and ﬁlled with dismay all save those who have been exempted by
God, He Who layeth low the necks of men.
Adorn ye your bodies whilst the raiment of God is stained with the blood of hatred at the
hands of the people of denial? Issue forth from your habitations and bid the people enter the
Kingdom of God, the Lord of the Day of Judgement. The Word which the Son concealed is made
manifest. It hath been sent down in the form of the human temple in this day. Blessed be the Lord105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112

Who is the Father! He, verily, is come unto the nations in His most great majesty. Turn your faces
towards Him, O concourse of the righteous!
O followers of all religions! We behold you wandering distraught in the wilderness of error. Ye
are the ﬁsh of this Ocean; wherefore do ye withhold yourselves from that which sustaineth you?
Lo, it surgeth before your faces. Hasten unto it from every clime. This is the day whereon the
Rock3 crieth out and shouteth, and celebrateth the praise of its Lord, the All-Possessing, the Most
High, saying: “Lo! The Father is come, and that which ye were promised in the Kingdom is
fulﬁlled!” This is the Word which was preserved behind the veils of grandeur, and which, when the
Promise came to pass, shed its radiance from the horizon of the Divine Will with clear tokens.
My body hath borne imprisonment that your souls may be released from bondage, and We
have consented to be abased that ye may be exalted. Follow the Lord of glory and dominion, and
not every ungodly oppressor. My body longeth for the cross, and Mine head awaiteth the thrust of
the spear, in the path of the All-Merciful, that the world may be purged from its transgressions.
Thus hath the Daystar of divine authority shone forth from the horizon of the Revelation of Him
Who is the Possessor of all names and attributes.
The people of the Qur’án have risen against Us, and tormented Us with such a torment that
the Holy Spirit lamented, and the thunder roared out, and the clouds wept over Us. Among the
faithless is he who hath imagined that calamities can deter Bahá from fulﬁlling that which God,
the Creator of all things, hath purposed. Say: Nay, by Him Who causeth the rain to fall! Nothing
whatsoever can withhold Him from the remembrance of His Lord.
By the righteousness of God! Should they cast Him into a ﬁre kindled on the continent, He
will assuredly rear His head in the midmost heart of the ocean and proclaim: “He is the Lord of all
that are in heaven and all that are on earth!” And if they cast Him into a darksome pit, they will
ﬁnd Him seated on earth’s loftiest heights calling aloud to all mankind: “Lo, the Desire of the
World is come in His majesty, His sovereignty, His transcendent dominion!” And if He be buried
beneath the depths of the earth, His Spirit soaring to the apex of heaven shall peal the summons:
“Behold ye the coming of the Glory; witness ye the Kingdom of God, the Most Holy, the Gracious,
the All-Powerful!” And if they shed His blood, every drop thereof shall cry out and invoke God in
this Name through which the fragrance of His raiment hath been diffused in all directions.
Though threatened by the swords of Our enemies, We summon all mankind unto God, the
Fashioner of earth and heaven, and We render Him such aid as can be hindered by neither the
hosts of tyranny nor the ascendancy of the people of iniquity. Say: O peoples of the earth! Scatter
the idols of your vain imaginings in the name of your Lord, the All-Glorious, the All-Knowing, and
turn ye unto Him in this Day which God hath made the King of days.
O Supreme Pontiff! Incline thine ear unto that which the Fashioner of mouldering bones
counselleth thee, as voiced by Him Who is His Most Great Name. Sell all the embellished
ornaments thou dost possess, and expend them in the path of God, Who causeth the night to
return upon the day, and the day to return upon the night. Abandon thy kingdom unto the kings,
and emerge from thy habitation, with thy face set towards the Kingdom, and, detached from the
world, then speak forth the praises of thy Lord betwixt earth and heaven. Thus hath bidden thee
He Who is the Possessor of Names, on the part of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-Knowing. Exhort
thou the kings and say: “Deal equitably with men. Beware lest ye transgress the bounds ﬁxed in
the Book.” This indeed becometh thee. Beware lest thou appropriate unto thyself the things of the
world and the riches thereof. Leave them unto such as desire them, and cleave unto that which
hath been enjoined upon thee by Him Who is the Lord of creation. Should anyone offer thee all
the treasures of the earth, refuse to even glance upon them. Be as thy Lord hath been. Thus hath
the Tongue of Revelation spoken that which God hath made the ornament of the book of creation.
Consider a pearl which shineth by virtue of its inherent nature. If it be covered with silk, its
luster and beauty will be concealed. Likewise, man’s distinction lieth in the excellence of his
conduct and in the pursuit of that which beseemeth his station, not in childish play and pastimes.
Know that thy true adornment consisteth in the love of God and in thy detachment from all save
Him, and not in the luxuries thou dost possess. Abandon them unto those who seek after them
and turn unto God, He Who causeth the rivers to ﬂow.113
114
115
116
117
118
119

Whatever proceeded from the tongue of the Son was revealed in parables, whilst He Who
proclaimeth the Truth in this Day speaketh without them. Take heed lest thou cling to the cord of
idle fancy and withhold thyself from that which hath been ordained in the Kingdom of God, the
Almighty, the All-Bountiful. Should the inebriation of the wine of My verses seize thee, and thou
determinest to present thyself before the throne of thy Lord, the Creator of earth and heaven,
make My love thy vesture, and thy shield remembrance of Me, and thy provision reliance upon
God, the Revealer of all power.
O followers of the Son! We have once again sent John unto you, and He, verily, hath cried out
in the wilderness of the Bayán: O peoples of the world! Cleanse your eyes! The Day whereon ye
can behold the Promised One and attain unto Him hath drawn nigh! O followers of the Gospel!
Prepare the way! The Day of the advent of the Glorious Lord is at hand! Make ready to enter the
Kingdom. Thus hath it been ordained by God, He Who causeth the dawn to break.
Give ear unto that which the Dove of Eternity warbleth upon the twigs of the Divine Lote-
Tree: O followers of the Son! We sent forth him who was named John to baptize you with water,
that your bodies might be cleansed for the appearance of the Messiah. He, in turn, puriﬁed you
with the ﬁre of love and the water of the spirit in anticipation of these Days whereon the All-
Merciful hath purposed to cleanse you with the water of life at the hands of His loving
providence. This is that peerless One foretold by Isaiah, and the Comforter concerning Whom the
Spirit had covenanted with you. Open your eyes, O concourse of bishops, that ye may behold your
Lord seated upon the Throne of might and glory.
Say: O peoples of all faiths! Walk not in the ways of them that followed the Pharisees and
thus veiled themselves from the Spirit. They truly have strayed and are in error. The Ancient
Beauty is come in His Most Great Name, and He wisheth to admit all mankind into His most holy
Kingdom. The pure in heart behold the Kingdom of God manifest before His Face. Make haste
thereunto and follow not the inﬁdel and the ungodly. Should your eye be opposed thereto, pluck it
out.[10] Thus hath it been decreed by the Pen of the Ancient of Days, as bidden by Him Who is the
Lord of the entire creation. He, verily, hath come again that ye might be redeemed, O peoples of
the earth. Will ye slay Him Who desireth to grant you eternal life? Fear God, O ye who are
endued with insight.
O people! Hearken unto that which hath been revealed by your All-Glorious Lord, and turn
your faces unto God, the Lord of this world and of the world to come. Thus doth He Who is the
Dawning-Place of the Daystar of divine inspiration command you as bidden by the Fashioner of all
mankind. We, verily, have created you for the light, and desire not to abandon you unto the ﬁre.
Come forth, O people, from darkness by the grace of this Sun which hath shone forth above the
horizon of divine providence, and turn thereunto with sanctiﬁed hearts and assured souls, with
seeing eyes and beaming faces. Thus counselleth you the Supreme Ordainer from the scene of His
transcendent glory, that perchance His summons may draw you nigh unto the Kingdom of His
names.
Blessed the one who hath remained faithful to the Covenant of God, and woe betide him who
hath broken it and disbelieved in Him, the Knower of secrets. Say: This is the Day of Bounty!
Bestir yourselves that I may make you monarchs in the realms of My Kingdom. If ye follow Me,
ye shall behold that which ye were promised, and I will make you My companions in the
dominion of My majesty and the intimates of My beauty in the heaven of My power forevermore.
If ye rebel against Me, I will in My clemency endure it patiently, that haply ye may awaken and
rise up from the couch of heedlessness. Thus hath My mercy encompassed you. Fear ye God and
follow not in the ways of those who have turned away from His face, though they invoke His
name in the daytime and in the night season.
Verily, the day of ingathering is come, and all things have been separated from each other. He
hath stored away that which He chose in the vessels of justice, and cast into ﬁre that which
beﬁtteth it. Thus hath it been decreed by your Lord, the Mighty, the Loving, in this promised Day.
He, verily, ordaineth what He pleaseth. There is none other God save He, the Almighty, the All-
Compelling. The desire of the Divine Sifter hath been to store up every good thing for Mine own120
121
122
123
124
125
126

Self. Naught hath He spoken save to acquaint you with My Cause and to guide you to the path of
Him whose mention hath adorned all the sacred Books.
Say: O concourse of Christians! We have, on a previous occasion, revealed Ourself unto you,
and ye recognized Me not. This is yet another occasion vouchsafed unto you. This is the Day of
God; turn ye unto Him. He, verily, hath come down from heaven even as He came down the ﬁrst
time, and He desireth to shelter you beneath the shade of His mercy. He, verily, is the Exalted, the
Mighty, the Supreme Helper. The Beloved One loveth not that ye be consumed with the ﬁre of
your desires. Were ye to be shut out as by a veil from Him, this would be for no other reason than
your own waywardness and ignorance. Ye make mention of Me, and know Me not. Ye call upon
Me, and are heedless of My Revelation, notwithstanding that I came unto you from the heaven of
pre-existence with surpassing glory. Rend the veils asunder in My name and through the power of
My sovereignty that ye may discover a path unto your Lord.
The King of Glory proclaimeth from the tabernacle of majesty and grandeur His call, saying:
O people of the Gospel! They who were not in the Kingdom have now entered it, whilst We
behold you, in this day, tarrying at the gate. Rend the veils asunder by the power of your Lord, the
Almighty, the All-Bounteous, and enter, then, in My name My Kingdom. Thus biddeth you He
Who desireth for you everlasting life. He, verily, is potent over all things. Blessed are those who
have recognized the Light and hastened unto it. They, verily, dwell in the Kingdom, and partake of
the food and drink of God’s chosen ones.
We behold you, O children of the Kingdom, in darkness. This, verily, beseemeth you not. Are
ye, in the face of the Light, fearful because of your deeds? Direct yourselves towards Him. Your
All-Glorious Lord hath blessed His lands with His footsteps. Thus do We make plain unto you the
path of Him Whom the Spirit prophesied. I, verily, bear witness unto Him, even as He hath borne
witness unto Me. Verily, He said: “Come ye after Me, and I will make you to become ﬁshers of
men.” In this day, however, We say: “Come ye after Me, that We may make you to become the
quickeners of mankind.” Thus hath the decree been inscribed in this Tablet by the Pen of
Revelation.
O Pen of the Most High! Bestir Thyself in remembrance of other kings in this blessed and
luminous Book, that perchance they may rise from the couch of heedlessness and give ear unto
that which the Nightingale singeth upon the branches of the Divine Lote-Tree, and hasten towards
God in this most wondrous and sublime Revelation.
Napoleon III
O King of Paris![11] Tell the priests to ring the bells no longer. By God, the True One! The
Most Mighty Bell hath appeared in the form of Him Who is the Most Great Name, and the ﬁngers
of the Will of Thy Lord, the Most Exalted, the Most High, toll it out in the heaven of Immortality
in His name, the All-Glorious. Thus have the mighty verses of Thy Lord been again sent down
unto thee, that thou mayest arise to remember God, the Creator of earth and heaven, in these
days when all the tribes of the earth have mourned, and the foundations of the cities have
trembled, and the dust of irreligion hath enwrapped all men, except such as God, the All-Knowing,
the All-Wise, was pleased to spare. Say: He Who is the Unconstrained is come, in the clouds of
light, that He may quicken the world with the breezes of His name, the Most Merciful, and unite
its peoples, and gather all men around this Table which hath been sent down from heaven.
Beware that ye deny not the favour of God after it hath been sent down unto you. Better is this
for you than that which ye possess; for that which is yours perisheth, whilst that which is with
God endureth. He, in truth, ordaineth what He pleaseth. Verily, the breezes of forgiveness have
been wafted from the direction of your Lord, the God of Mercy; whoso turneth thereunto shall be
cleansed of his sins, and of all pain and sickness. Happy the man that hath turned towards them,
and woe betide him that hath turned aside.
Wert thou to incline thine inner ear unto all created things, thou wouldst hear: “The Ancient
of Days is come in His great glory!” Everything celebrateth the praise of its Lord. Some have127
128
129
130
131
132

known God and remember Him; others remember Him, yet know Him not. Thus have We set
down Our decree in a perspicuous Tablet.
Give ear, O King, unto the Voice that calleth from the Fire which burneth in this verdant Tree,
on this Sinai which hath been raised above the hallowed and snow-white Spot, beyond the
Everlasting City; “Verily, there is none other God but Me, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Merciful!”
We, in truth, have sent Him Whom We aided with the Holy Spirit that He may announce unto
you this Light that hath shone forth from the horizon of the Will of your Lord, the Most Exalted,
the All-Glorious, and Whose signs have been revealed in the West. Set your faces towards Him on
this Day which God hath exalted above all other days, and whereon the All-Merciful hath shed the
splendour of His effulgent glory upon all who are in heaven and all who are on earth. Arise thou
to serve God and help His Cause. He, verily, will assist thee with the hosts of the seen and
unseen, and will set thee king over all that whereon the sun riseth. Thy Lord, in truth, is the All-
Powerful, the Almighty.
The breezes of the Most Merciful have passed over all created things; happy the man that
hath discovered their fragrance, and set himself towards them with a sound heart. Attire thy
temple with the ornament of My Name, and thy tongue with remembrance of Me, and thine heart
with love for Me, the Almighty, the Most High. We have desired for thee naught except that which
is better for thee than what thou dost possess and all the treasures of the earth. Thy Lord, verily,
is knowing, informed of all. Arise, in My Name, amongst My servants, and say: “O ye peoples of
the earth! Turn yourselves towards Him Who hath turned towards you. He, verily, is the Face of
God amongst you, and His Testimony and His Guide unto you. He hath come to you with signs
which none can produce.” The voice of the Burning Bush is raised in the midmost heart of the
world, and the Holy Spirit calleth aloud among the nations: “Lo, the Desired One is come with
manifest dominion!”
O King! The stars of the heaven of knowledge have fallen, they who seek to establish the
truth of My Cause through the things they possess, and who make mention of God in My Name.
And yet, when I came unto them in My glory, they turned aside. They, indeed, are of the fallen.
This is, truly, that which the Spirit of God hath announced, when He came with truth unto you,
He with Whom the Jewish doctors disputed, till at last they perpetrated what hath made the Holy
Spirit to lament, and the tears of them that have near access to God to ﬂow. Consider how a
Pharisee who had worshipped God for seventy years repudiated the Son when He appeared,
whereas one who had committed adultery gained admittance into the Kingdom. Thus doth the Pen
admonish thee as bidden by the Eternal King, that thou mayest be apprised of what came to pass
aforetime and be reckoned in this day among them that truly believe.
Say: O concourse of monks! Seclude not yourselves in your churches and cloisters. Come ye
out of them by My leave, and busy, then, yourselves with what will proﬁt you and others. Thus
commandeth you He Who is the Lord of the Day of Reckoning. Seclude yourselves in the
stronghold of My love. This, truly, is the seclusion that beﬁtteth you, could ye but know it. He that
secludeth himself in his house is indeed as one dead. It behoveth man to show forth that which
will beneﬁt mankind. He that bringeth forth no fruit is ﬁt for the ﬁre. Thus admonisheth you your
Lord; He, verily, is the Mighty, the Bountiful. Enter ye into wedlock, that after you another may
arise in your stead. We, verily, have forbidden you lechery, and not that which is conducive to
ﬁdelity. Have ye clung unto the promptings of your nature, and cast behind your backs the
statutes of God? Fear ye God, and be not of the foolish. But for man, who, on My earth, would
remember Me, and how could My attributes and My names be revealed? Reﬂect, and be not of
them that have shut themselves out as by a veil from Him, and were of those that are fast asleep.
He that married not could ﬁnd no place wherein to abide, nor where to lay His head, by reason of
what the hands of the treacherous had wrought. His holiness consisted not in the things ye have
believed and imagined, but rather in the things which belong unto Us. Ask, that ye may be made
aware of His station which hath been exalted above the vain imaginings of all the peoples of the
earth. Blessed are they that understand.
O King! We heard the words thou didst utter in answer to the Czar of Russia, concerning the
decision made regarding the war.[12] Thy Lord, verily, knoweth, is informed of all. Thou didst say:133
134
135
136
137

“I lay asleep upon my couch, when the cry of the oppressed, who were drowned in the Black Sea,
wakened me.” This is what We heard thee say, and, verily, thy Lord is witness unto what I say. We
testify that that which wakened thee was not their cry but the promptings of thine own passions,
for We tested thee, and found thee wanting. Comprehend the meaning of My words, and be thou
of the discerning. It is not Our wish to address thee words of condemnation, out of regard for the
dignity We conferred upon thee in this mortal life. We, verily, have chosen courtesy, and made it
the true mark of such as are nigh unto Him. Courtesy is, in truth, a raiment which ﬁtteth all men,
whether young or old. Well is it with him that adorneth his temple therewith, and woe unto him
who is deprived of this great bounty. Hadst thou been sincere in thy words, thou wouldst have not
cast behind thy back the Book of God, when it was sent unto thee by Him Who is the Almighty,
the All-Wise. We have proved thee through it, and found thee other than that which thou didst
profess. Arise, and make amends for that which escaped thee. Erelong the world and all that thou
possessest will perish, and the kingdom will remain unto God, thy Lord and the Lord of thy
fathers of old. It behoveth thee not to conduct thine affairs according to the dictates of thy desires.
Fear the sighs of this Wronged One, and shield Him from the darts of such as act unjustly.
For what thou hast done, thy kingdom shall be thrown into confusion, and thine empire shall
pass from thine hands, as a punishment for that which thou hast wrought.[13] Then wilt thou
know how thou hast plainly erred. Commotions shall seize all the people in that land, unless thou
arisest to help this Cause, and followest Him Who is the Spirit of God in this, the Straight Path.
Hath thy pomp made thee proud? By My Life! It shall not endure; nay, it shall soon pass away,
unless thou holdest fast by this ﬁrm Cord. We see abasement hastening after thee, whilst thou art
of those who are fast asleep. It behoveth thee when thou hearest His Voice calling from the seat
of glory to cast away all that thou possessest, and cry out: “Here am I, O Lord of all that is in
heaven and all that is on earth!”
O King! We were in ‘Iráq, when the hour of parting arrived. At the bidding of the King of
Islám4 We set Our steps in his direction. Upon Our arrival, there befell Us at the hands of the
malicious that which the books of the world can never adequately recount. Thereupon the inmates
of Paradise, and they that dwell within the retreats of holiness, lamented; and yet the people are
wrapped in a thick veil! Say: Do ye cavil at Him Who hath come unto you bearing the clear
evidence of God and His proof, the testimony of God and His signs? These things are not from
Himself; nay, rather they proceed from the One Who hath raised Him up, sent Him forth through
the power of truth, and made Him to be a lamp unto all mankind.
More grievous became Our plight from day to day, nay, from hour to hour, until they took Us
forth from Our prison and made Us, with glaring injustice, enter the Most Great Prison. And if
anyone ask them: “For what crime were they imprisoned?”, they would answer and say: “They,
verily, sought to supplant the Faith with a new religion!” If that which is ancient be what ye
prefer, wherefore, then, have ye discarded that which hath been set down in the Torah and the
Evangel? Clear it up, O men! By My life! There is no place for you to ﬂee to in this day. If this be
My crime, then Muḥammad, the Apostle of God, committed it before Me, and before Him He Who
was the Spirit of God, and yet earlier He Who conversed with God. And if My sin be this, that I
have exalted the Word of God and revealed His Cause, then indeed am I the greatest of sinners!
Such a sin I will not barter for the kingdoms of earth and heaven.
Upon Our arrival at this Prison, We purposed to transmit to the kings the messages of their
Lord, the Mighty, the All-Praised. Though We have transmitted to them, in several Tablets, that
which We were commanded, yet We do it once again as a token of God’s grace. Perchance they
may recognize the Lord, Who hath come down in the clouds with manifest sovereignty.
As My tribulations multiplied, so did My love for God and for His Cause increase, in such wise
that all that befell Me from the hosts of the wayward was powerless to deter Me from My
purpose. Should they hide Me away in the depths of the earth, yet would they ﬁnd Me riding aloft
on the clouds, and calling out unto God, the Lord of strength and of might. I have offered Myself
up in the way of God, and I yearn after tribulations in My love for Him, and for the sake of His
good pleasure. Unto this bear witness the woes which now afﬂict Me, the like of which no other
man hath suffered. Every single hair of Mine head calleth out that which the Burning Bush138
139
140
141
142

uttered on Sinai, and each vein of My body invoketh God and saith: “O would I had been severed in
Thy path, so that the world might be quickened, and all its peoples be united!” Thus hath it been
decreed by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.
Know of a truth that your subjects are God’s trust amongst you. Watch ye, therefore, over
them as ye watch over your own selves. Beware that ye allow not wolves to become the
shepherds of the fold, or pride and conceit to deter you from turning unto the poor and the
desolate. Wert thou to quaff the mystic Wine of everlasting life from the chalice of the words of
thy Lord, the All-Merciful, thou wouldst be enabled to forsake all that thou dost possess and to
proclaim My Name before all mankind. Cleanse then thy soul with the waters of detachment.
Verily, this is the Remembrance that hath shone forth above the horizon of creation, which shall
purge thy soul from the dross of the world. Abandon thy palaces to the people of the graves, and
thine empire to whosoever desireth it, and turn, then, unto the Kingdom. This, verily, is what God
hath chosen for thee, wert thou of them that turn unto Him. They that have failed to turn unto
the Countenance of God in this Revelation are indeed bereft of life. They move as bidden by their
own selﬁsh desires, and are in truth accounted among the dead. Shouldst thou desire to bear the
weight of thy dominion, bear it then to aid the Cause of thy Lord. Gloriﬁed be this station which
whoever attaineth thereunto hath attained unto all good that proceedeth from Him Who is the
All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
Arise thou, in My name, above the horizon of renunciation, and set, then, thy face towards the
Kingdom, at the bidding of thy Lord, the Lord of strength and of might. Through the power of My
sovereignty stand before the inhabitants of the world and say: “O people! The Day is come, and
the fragrances of God have been wafted over the whole of creation. They that have turned away
from His Face are the helpless victims of their corrupt inclinations. They are indeed of them that
have gone astray.”
Adorn the body of thy kingdom with the raiment of My name, and arise, then, to teach My
Cause. Better is this for thee than that which thou possessest. God will, thereby, exalt thy name
among all the kings. Potent is He over all things. Walk thou amongst men in the name of God, and
by the power of His might, that thou mayest show forth His signs amidst the peoples of the earth.
Burn thou brightly with the ﬂame of this undying Fire which the All-Merciful hath ignited in the
midmost heart of creation, that through thee the heat of His love may be kindled within the
hearts of His favoured ones. Follow in My way and enrapture the hearts of men through
remembrance of Me, the Almighty, the Most Exalted.
Say: He from whom, in this day, the sweet savours of the remembrance of his Lord, the All-
Merciful, have not been diffused, is indeed unworthy of the station of man. He, verily, is of them
that have followed their own desires, and shall erelong ﬁnd himself in grievous loss. Doth it
behove you to relate yourselves to Him Who is the God of mercy, and yet commit the things
which the Evil One hath committed? Nay, by the Beauty of Him Who is the All-Gloriﬁed! could ye
but know it. Purge your hearts from love of the world, and your tongues from calumny, and your
limbs from whatsoever may withhold you from drawing nigh unto God, the Mighty, the All-
Praised. Say: By the world is meant that which turneth you aside from Him Who is the Dawning-
Place of Revelation, and inclineth you unto that which is unproﬁtable unto you. Verily, the thing
that deterreth you, in this day, from God is worldliness in its essence. Eschew it, and approach the
Most Sublime Vision, this shining and resplendent Seat. Blessed is he who alloweth nothing
whatsoever to intervene between him and his Lord. No harm, assuredly, can befall him if he
partaketh with justice of the beneﬁts of this world, inasmuch as We have created all things for
such of Our servants as truly believe in God.
Should your words, O people, be at variance with your deeds, what then shall distinguish you
from those who profess their faith in the Lord, their God, and yet, when He came down to them
overshadowed with clouds, rejected Him and waxed proud before God, the Incomparable, the
Omniscient? Shed not the blood of anyone, O people, neither judge ye anyone unjustly. Thus have
ye been commanded by Him Who knoweth, Who is informed of all. They that commit disorders in
the land after it hath been well ordered, these indeed have outstepped the bounds that have been
set in the Book. Wretched shall be the abode of the transgressors!143
144
145
146
147

God hath prescribed unto everyone the duty of teaching His Cause. Whoever ariseth to
discharge this duty, must needs, ere he proclaimeth His Message, adorn himself with the
ornament of an upright and praiseworthy character, so that his words may attract the hearts of
such as are receptive to his call. Without it, he can never hope to inﬂuence his hearers. Thus doth
God instruct you. He, verily, is the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
They who exhort others unto justice, while themselves committing iniquity, stand accused of
falsehood by the inmates of the Kingdom and by those who circle round the throne of their Lord,
the Almighty, the Beneﬁcent, for that which their tongues have uttered. Commit not, O people,
that which dishonoureth your name and the fair name of the Cause of God amongst men. Beware
lest ye approach that which your minds abhor. Fear God and follow not in the footsteps of them
that are gone astray. Deal not treacherously with the substance of your neighbour. Be ye
trustworthy on earth, and withhold not from the poor the things given unto you by God through
His grace. He, verily, will bestow upon you the double of what ye possess. He, in truth, is the All-
Bounteous, the Most Generous.
Say: We have ordained that our Cause be taught through the power of utterance. Beware lest
ye dispute idly with anyone. Whoso ariseth wholly for the sake of his Lord to teach His Cause,
the Holy Spirit shall strengthen him and inspire him with that which will illumine the heart of
the world, how much more the hearts of those who seek Him. O people of Bahá! Subdue the
citadels of men’s hearts with the swords of wisdom and of utterance. They that dispute, as
prompted by their desires, are indeed wrapped in a palpable veil. Say: The sword of wisdom is
hotter than summer heat, and sharper than blades of steel, if ye do but understand. Draw it forth
in My name and through the power of My might, and conquer then with it the cities of the hearts
of them that have secluded themselves in the stronghold of their corrupt desires. Thus biddeth you
the Pen of the All-Glorious, whilst seated beneath the swords of the wayward.
If ye become aware of a sin committed by another, conceal it, that God may conceal your own
sin. He, verily, is the Concealer, the Lord of grace abounding. O ye rich ones on earth! If ye
encounter one who is poor, treat him not disdainfully. Reﬂect upon that whereof ye were created.
Every one of you was created of a sorry germ.[14] It behoveth you to observe truthfulness, whereby
your temples shall be adorned, your names uplifted, your stations exalted amidst men, and a
mighty recompense assured for you before God.
Give ear, O peoples of the earth, unto that which the Pen of the Lord of all nations
commandeth you. Know ye of a certainty that the Dispensations of the past have attained their
highest, their ﬁnal consummation in the Law that hath branched out from this Most Great Ocean.
Haste ye thereunto at Our behest. We, verily, ordain as We please. Regard ye the world as a man’s
body, which is afﬂicted with divers ailments, and the recovery of which dependeth upon the
harmonizing of all of its component elements. Gather ye around that which We have prescribed
unto you, and walk not in the ways of such as create dissension.
All feasts have attained their consummation in the two Most Great Festivals, and in two other
Festivals that fall on the twin days—the ﬁrst of the Most Great Festivals being those days whereon
God shed the effulgent glory of His most excellent Names upon all who are in heaven and on
earth, and the second being that day on which We raised up the One Who announced unto the
people the glad-tidings of this Great Announcement.[15] Thus hath it been set down in the Book
by Him Who is the Mighty, the Powerful. On other than these four consummate days, engage ye
in your daily occupations, and withhold yourselves not from the pursuit of your trades and crafts.
Thus hath the command been issued and the law gone forth from Him Who is your Lord, the All-
Knowing, the All-Wise.
Say: O concourse of priests and monks! Eat ye of that which God hath made lawful unto you
and do not shun meat. God hath, as a token of His grace, granted you leave to partake thereof
save during a brief period. He, verily, is the Mighty, the Beneﬁcent. Forsake all that ye possess and
hold fast unto that which God hath purposed. This is that which proﬁteth you, if ye be of them
that comprehend. We have ordained a fast of nineteen days in the most temperate of the seasons,
and have in this resplendent and luminous Dispensation relieved you from more than this. Thus
have We set forth and made clear unto you that which ye are bidden to observe, that ye may148
149
150
151
152
153
154

follow the commandments of God and be united in that which the Almighty, the All-Wise, hath
appointed unto you. He Who is your Lord, the All-Merciful, cherisheth in His heart the desire of
beholding the entire human race as one soul and one body. Haste ye to win your share of God’s
good grace and mercy in this Day that eclipseth all other created Days. How great the felicity that
awaiteth the man that forsaketh all he hath in a desire to obtain the things of God! Such a man,
We testify, is among God’s blessed ones.
O King! Bear thou witness unto that which God hath Himself and for Himself borne witness
ere the creation of earth and heaven, that there is none other God but Me, the One, the Single, the
Most Exalted, the Incomparable, the Inaccessible. Arise with the utmost steadfastness in the Cause
of thy Lord, the All-Glorious. Thus hast thou been instructed in this wondrous Tablet. We, verily,
have desired naught for thee save that which is better for thee than all that is on earth. Unto this
testify all created things and beyond them this perspicuous Book.
Meditate on the world and the state of its people. He, for Whose sake the world was called
into being, hath been imprisoned in the most desolate of cities,5 by reason of that which the hands
of the wayward have wrought. From the horizon of His prison-city He summoneth mankind unto
the Dayspring of God, the Exalted, the Great. Exultest thou over the treasures thou dost possess,
knowing they shall perish? Rejoicest thou in that thou rulest a span of earth, when the whole
world, in the estimation of the people of Bahá, is worth as much as the black in the eye of a dead
ant? Abandon it unto such as have set their affections upon it, and turn thou unto Him Who is the
Desire of the world. Whither are gone the proud and their palaces? Gaze thou into their tombs,
that thou mayest proﬁt by this example, inasmuch as We made it a lesson unto every beholder.
Were the breezes of Revelation to seize thee, thou wouldst ﬂee the world, and turn unto the
Kingdom, and wouldst expend all thou possessest, that thou mayest draw nigh unto this sublime
Vision.
We behold the generality of mankind worshipping names and exposing themselves, as thou
dost witness, to dire perils in the mere hope of perpetuating their names, whilst every perceiving
soul testiﬁeth that after death one’s name shall avail him nothing except insofar as it beareth a
relationship unto God, the Almighty, the All-Praised. Thus have their vain imaginings taken hold
of them in requital for that which their hands have wrought. Consider the pettiness of men’s
minds. They seek with utmost exertion that which proﬁteth them not, and yet wert thou to ask of
them: “Is there any advantage in that which ye desire?”, thou wouldst ﬁnd them sorely perplexed.
Were a fair-minded soul to be found, he would reply: “Nay, by the Lord of the worlds!” Such is the
condition of the people and of that which they possess. Leave them in their folly and turn thy
sight unto God. This is in truth that which beseemeth thee. Hearken then unto the counsel of thy
Lord, and say: Lauded art Thou, O God of all who are in heaven and on earth!
Czar Alexander II
O Czar of Russia! Incline thine ear unto the voice of God, the King, the Holy, and turn thou
unto Paradise, the Spot wherein abideth He Who, among the Concourse on high, beareth the most
excellent titles, and Who, in the kingdom of creation, is called by the name of God, the Effulgent,
the All-Glorious. Beware lest thy desire deter thee from turning towards the face of thy Lord, the
Compassionate, the Most Merciful. We, verily, have heard the thing for which thou didst
supplicate thy Lord, whilst secretly communing with Him. Wherefore, the breeze of My loving-
kindness wafted forth, and the sea of My mercy surged, and We answered thee in truth. Thy Lord,
verily, is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise. Whilst I lay chained and fettered in the prison, one of thy
ministers extended Me his aid. Wherefore hath God ordained for thee a station which the
knowledge of none can comprehend except His knowledge. Beware lest thou barter away this
sublime station. Thy Lord, verily, doeth what He willeth. What He pleaseth will God abrogate or
conﬁrm, and with Him is the knowledge of all things in a Guarded Tablet.
Beware lest thy sovereignty withhold thee from Him Who is the Supreme Sovereign. He,
verily, is come with His Kingdom, and all the atoms cry aloud: “Lo! The Lord is come in His great
majesty!” He Who is the Father is come, and the Son, in the holy vale, crieth out: “Here am I, here155
156
157
158
159

am I, O Lord, My God!”, whilst Sinai circleth round the House, and the Burning Bush calleth aloud:
“The All-Bounteous is come mounted upon the clouds! Blessed is he that draweth nigh unto Him,
and woe betide them that are far away.”
Arise thou amongst men in the name of this all-compelling Cause, and summon, then, the
nations unto God, the Exalted, the Great. Be thou not of them who called upon God by one of His
names, but who, when He Who is the Object of all names appeared, denied Him and turned aside
from Him, and, in the end, pronounced sentence against Him with manifest injustice. Consider
and call thou to mind the days whereon the Spirit of God appeared, and Herod gave judgement
against Him. God, however, aided Him with the hosts of the unseen, and protected Him with
truth, and sent Him down unto another land, according to His promise. He, verily, ordaineth what
He pleaseth. Thy Lord truly preserveth whom He willeth, be he in the midst of the seas, or in the
maw of the serpent, or beneath the sword of the oppressor.
Blessed be the king whom the veils of glory have not deterred from turning unto the
Dayspring of beauty and who hath forsaken his all in his desire to obtain the things of God. He,
indeed, is accounted in the sight of God as the most excellent of men, and is extolled by the
inmates of Paradise and them that circle morn and eve round the Throne on high.
Again I say: Hearken unto My voice that calleth from My prison, that it may acquaint thee
with the things that have befallen My Beauty, at the hands of them that are the manifestations of
My glory, and that thou mayest perceive how great hath been My patience, notwithstanding My
might, and how immense My forbearance, notwithstanding My power. By My life! Couldst thou
but know the things sent down by My Pen, and discover the treasures of My Cause, and the pearls
of My mysteries which lie hid in the seas of My names and in the goblets of My words, thou
wouldst, in thy love for My name, and in thy longing for My glorious and sublime Kingdom, lay
down thy life in My path. Know thou that though My body be beneath the swords of My foes, and
My limbs be beset with incalculable afﬂictions, yet My spirit is ﬁlled with a gladness with which
all the joys of the earth can never compare.
Set thine heart towards Him Who is the Point of adoration for the world, and say: “O peoples
of the earth! Have ye denied the One in Whose path He Who came with the truth, bearing the
announcement of your Lord, the Exalted, the Great, suffered martyrdom?” Say: This is an
Announcement whereat the hearts of the Prophets and Messengers have rejoiced. This is the One
Whom the heart of the world remembereth, and is promised in the Books of God, the Mighty, the
All-Wise. The hands of the Messengers were, in their desire to meet Me, upraised towards God,
the Mighty, the Gloriﬁed. Unto this testiﬁeth that which hath been sent down in the sacred
Scriptures by Him Who is the Lord of might and power.
Some lamented in their separation from Me, others endured hardships in My path, and still
others laid down their lives for the sake of My Beauty, could ye but know it. Say: I, verily, have not
sought to extol Mine own Self, but rather God Himself, were ye to judge fairly. Naught can be seen
in Me except God and His Cause, could ye but perceive it. I am the One Whom the tongue of
Isaiah hath extolled, the One with Whose name both the Torah and the Evangel were adorned.
Thus hath it been decreed in the Scriptures of thy Lord, the Most Merciful. He, verily, hath borne
witness unto Me, as I bear witness unto Him. And God testiﬁeth to the truth of My words.
Say: The Books have been sent down for naught but My remembrance. Whosoever is
receptive to their call shall perceive therefrom the sweet fragrances of My name and My praise;
and he who hath unstopped the ear of his inmost heart shall hear from every word thereof: “The
True One is come! He indeed is the beloved of the worlds!”
It is for the sake of God alone that My tongue counselleth you and that My pen moveth to
make mention of you, for neither can the malice and denial of all who dwell on earth harm Me,
nor the allegiance of the entire creation proﬁt Me. We, verily, exhort you unto that which We were
commanded, and desire naught from you except that ye draw nigh unto what shall proﬁt you in
both this world and the world to come. Say: Will ye slay Him Who summoneth you unto life
everlasting? Fear ye God, and follow not every contumacious oppressor.
O proud ones of the earth! Do ye believe yourselves to be abiding in palaces whilst He Who is
the King of Revelation resideth in the most desolate of abodes? Nay, by My life! In tombs do ye160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167

dwell, could ye but perceive it. Verily, he who faileth, in these days, to be stirred by the breeze of
God is accounted among the dead in the sight of Him Who is the Lord of all names and attributes.
Arise, then, from the tombs of self and desire and turn unto the Kingdom of God, the Possessor of
the Throne on high and of earth below, that ye may behold that which ye were promised
aforetime by your Lord, the All-Knowing.
Think ye that the things ye possess shall proﬁt you? Soon others will possess them and ye
will return unto the dust with none to help or succour you. What advantage is there in a life that
can be overtaken by death, or in an existence that is doomed to extinction, or in a prosperity that
is subject to change? Cast away the things that ye possess and set your faces toward the favours
of God which have been sent down in this wondrous Name.
Thus doth the Pen of the Most High warble unto thee its melodies by the leave of thy Lord,
the All-Glorious. When thou hast heard and recited them, say: “Praise be unto Thee, O Lord of all
the worlds, inasmuch as Thou hast made mention of me through the tongue of Him Who is the
Manifestation of Thy Self at a time when He was conﬁned in the Most Great Prison, that the
whole world might attain unto true liberty.”
Blessed be the king whose sovereignty hath withheld him not from his Sovereign, and who
hath turned unto God with his heart. He, verily, is accounted of those that have attained unto that
which God, the Mighty, the All-Wise, hath willed. Erelong will such a one ﬁnd himself numbered
with the monarchs of the realms of the Kingdom. Thy Lord is, in truth, potent over all things. He
giveth what He willeth to whomsoever He willeth, and withholdeth what He pleaseth from
whomsoever He willeth. He, verily, is the All-Powerful, the Almighty.
Queen Victoria
O Queen in London! Incline thine ear unto the voice of thy Lord, the Lord of all mankind,
calling from the Divine Lote-Tree: Verily, no God is there but Me, the Almighty, the All-Wise! Cast
away all that is on earth, and attire the head of thy kingdom with the crown of the remembrance
of thy Lord, the All-Glorious. He, in truth, hath come unto the world in His most great glory, and
all that hath been mentioned in the Gospel hath been fulﬁlled. The land of Syria hath been
honoured by the footsteps of its Lord, the Lord of all men, and north and south are both inebriated
with the wine of His presence. Blessed is the man that hath inhaled the fragrance of the Most
Merciful, and turned unto the Dawning-Place of His Beauty, in this resplendent Dawn. The
Mosque of Aqṣá vibrateth through the breezes of its Lord, the All-Glorious, whilst Baṭḥá6
trembleth at the voice of God, the Exalted, the Most High. Whereupon every single stone of them
celebrateth the praise of the Lord, through this Great Name.
Lay aside thy desire, and set then thine heart towards thy Lord, the Ancient of Days. We
make mention of thee for the sake of God, and desire that thy name may be exalted through thy
remembrance of God, the Creator of earth and heaven. He, verily, is witness unto that which I say.
We have been informed that thou hast forbidden the trading in slaves, both men and women. This,
verily, is what God hath enjoined in this wondrous Revelation. God hath, truly, destined a reward
for thee, because of this. He, verily, will pay the doer of good his due recompense, wert thou to
follow what hath been sent unto thee by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed. As to
him who turneth aside, and swelleth with pride, after the clear tokens have come unto him from
the Revealer of signs, his work shall God bring to naught. He, in truth, hath power over all things.
Man’s actions are acceptable after his having recognized (the Manifestation). He that turneth aside
from the True One is indeed the most veiled amongst His creatures. Thus hath it been decreed by
Him Who is the Almighty, the Most Powerful.
We have also heard that thou hast entrusted the reins of counsel into the hands of the
representatives of the people. Thou, indeed, hast done well, for thereby the foundations of the
ediﬁce of thine affairs will be strengthened, and the hearts of all that are beneath thy shadow,
whether high or low, will be tranquillized. It behoveth them, however, to be trustworthy among
His servants, and to regard themselves as the representatives of all that dwell on earth. This is
what counselleth them, in this Tablet, He Who is the Ruler, the All-Wise. And if any one of them168
169
170
171
172
173

directeth himself towards the Assembly, let him turn his eyes unto the Supreme Horizon, and say:
“O my God! I ask Thee, by Thy most glorious Name, to aid me in that which will cause the affairs
of Thy servants to prosper, and Thy cities to ﬂourish. Thou, indeed, hast power over all things!”
Blessed is he that entereth the Assembly for the sake of God, and judgeth between men with pure
justice. He, indeed, is of the blissful.
O ye the elected representatives of the people in every land! Take ye counsel together, and let
your concern be only for that which proﬁteth mankind and bettereth the condition thereof, if ye
be of them that scan heedfully. Regard the world as the human body which, though at its creation
whole and perfect, hath been afﬂicted, through various causes, with grave disorders and maladies.
Not for one day did it gain ease, nay its sickness waxed more severe, as it fell under the treatment
of ignorant physicians, who gave full rein to their personal desires and have erred grievously. And
if, at one time, through the care of an able physician, a member of that body was healed, the rest
remained afﬂicted as before. Thus informeth you the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
We behold it, in this day, at the mercy of rulers so drunk with pride that they cannot discern
clearly their own best advantage, much less recognize a Revelation so bewildering and challenging
as this. And whenever any one of them hath striven to improve its condition, his motive hath been
his own gain, whether confessedly so or not; and the unworthiness of this motive hath limited his
power to heal or cure.
That which the Lord hath ordained as the sovereign remedy and mightiest instrument for the
healing of all the world is the union of all its peoples in one universal Cause, one common Faith.
This can in no wise be achieved except through the power of a skilled, an all-powerful and
inspired Physician. This, verily, is the truth, and all else naught but error. Each time that Most
Mighty Instrument hath come, and that Light shone forth from the Ancient Dayspring, He was
withheld by ignorant physicians who, even as clouds, interposed themselves between Him and the
world. It failed, therefore, to recover, and its sickness hath persisted until this day. They indeed
were powerless to protect it, or to effect a cure, whilst He Who hath been the Manifestation of
Power amongst men was withheld from achieving His purpose, by reason of what the hands of
the ignorant physicians have wrought.
Consider these days in which He Who is the Ancient Beauty hath come in the Most Great
Name, that He may quicken the world and unite its peoples. They, however, rose up against Him
with sharpened swords, and committed that which caused the Faithful Spirit to lament, until in
the end they imprisoned Him in the most desolate of cities, and broke the grasp of the faithful
upon the hem of His robe. Were anyone to tell them: “The World Reformer is come”, they would
answer and say: “Indeed it is proven that He is a fomenter of discord!”, and this notwithstanding
that they have never associated with Him, and have perceived that He did not seek, for one
moment, to protect Himself. At all times He was at the mercy of the wicked doers. At one time
they cast Him into prison, at another they banished Him, and at yet another hurried Him from
land to land. Thus have they pronounced judgement against Us, and God, truly, is aware of what I
say. Such men are reckoned by God among the most ignorant of His creatures. They cut off their
own limbs and perceive it not; they deprive themselves of that which is best for them, and know it
not. They are even as a young child who can distinguish neither the mischief-maker from the
reformer nor the wicked from the righteous. We behold them in this Day wrapt in a palpable veil.
O ye rulers of the earth! Wherefore have ye clouded the radiance of the Sun, and caused it to
cease from shining? Hearken unto the counsel given you by the Pen of the Most High, that haply
both ye and the poor may attain unto tranquillity and peace. We beseech God to assist the kings
of the earth to establish peace on earth. He, verily, doth what He willeth.
O kings of the earth! We see you increasing every year your expenditures, and laying the
burden thereof on your subjects. This, verily, is wholly and grossly unjust. Fear the sighs and tears
of this Wronged One, and lay not excessive burdens on your peoples. Do not rob them to rear
palaces for yourselves; nay rather choose for them that which ye choose for yourselves. Thus We
unfold to your eyes that which proﬁteth you, if ye but perceive. Your people are your treasures.
Beware lest your rule violate the commandments of God, and ye deliver your wards to the hands174
175
176
177
178
179

of the robber. By them ye rule, by their means ye subsist, by their aid ye conquer. Yet, how
disdainfully ye look upon them! How strange, how very strange!
Now that ye have refused the Most Great Peace, hold ye fast unto this, the Lesser Peace, that
haply ye may in some degree better your own condition and that of your dependents.
O rulers of the earth! Be reconciled among yourselves, that ye may need no more armaments
save in a measure to safeguard your territories and dominions. Beware lest ye disregard the
counsel of the All-Knowing, the Faithful.
Be united, O kings of the earth, for thereby will the tempest of discord be stilled amongst you,
and your peoples ﬁnd rest, if ye be of them that comprehend. Should any one among you take up
arms against another, rise ye all against him, for this is naught but manifest justice. Thus did We
exhort you in the Tablet sent down aforetime,7 and We admonish you once again to follow that
which hath been revealed by Him Who is the Almighty, the All-Wise. Should anyone seek refuge
with you, extend unto him your protection and betray him not. Thus doth the Pen of the Most
High counsel you, as bidden by Him Who is the All-Knowing, the All-Informed.
Beware lest ye act as did the King of Islám8 when We came unto him at his bidding. His
ministers pronounced judgement against Us with such injustice that all creation lamented and the
hearts of those who are nigh unto God were consumed. The winds of self and passion move them
as they will, and We found them all bereft of constancy. They are, indeed, of those that are far
astray.
Rein in Thy pen, O Pen of the Ancient of Days, and leave them to themselves, for they are
immersed in their idle fancies. Make Thou mention of the Queen, that she may turn with a pure
heart unto the scene of transcendent glory, may withhold not her eyes from gazing toward her
Lord, the Supreme Ordainer, and may become acquainted with that which hath been revealed in
the Books and Tablets by the Creator of all mankind, He through Whom the sun hath been
darkened and the moon eclipsed, and through Whom the Call hath been raised betwixt earth and
heaven.
Turn thou unto God and say: O my Sovereign Lord! I am but a vassal of Thine, and Thou art,
in truth, the King of kings. I have lifted my suppliant hands unto the heaven of Thy grace and
Thy bounties. Send down, then, upon me from the clouds of Thy generosity that which will rid me
of all save Thee, and draw me nigh unto Thyself. I beseech Thee, O my Lord, by Thy name, which
Thou hast made the king of names and the manifestation of Thyself to all who are in heaven and
on earth, to rend asunder the veils that have intervened between me and my recognition of the
Dawning-Place of Thy signs and the Dayspring of Thy Revelation. Thou art, verily, the Almighty,
the All-Powerful, the All-Bounteous. Deprive me not, O my Lord, of the fragrances of the Robe of
Thy mercy in Thy days, and write down for me that which Thou hast written down for Thy
handmaidens who have believed in Thee and in Thy signs, and have recognized Thee, and set their
hearts towards the horizon of Thy Cause. Thou art truly the Lord of the worlds and of those who
show mercy the Most Merciful. Assist me, then, O my God, to remember Thee amongst Thy
handmaidens, and to aid Thy Cause in Thy lands. Accept, then, that which hath escaped me when
the light of Thy countenance shone forth. Thou, indeed, hast power over all things. Glory be to
Thee, O Thou in Whose hand is the kingdom of the heavens and of the earth.
Náṣiri’d-Dín Sháh
O King of the Earth! Hearken unto the call of this Vassal: Verily, I am a Servant Who hath
believed in God and in His signs, and have sacriﬁced Myself in His path. Unto this bear witness
the woes which now beset Me, woes the like of which no man hath ever before sustained. My
Lord, the All-Knowing, testiﬁeth to the truth of My words. I have summoned the people unto none
save God, thy Lord and the Lord of the worlds, and have endured for love of Him such afﬂictions as
the eye of creation hath never beheld. To this testify those whom the veils of human fancy have
not deterred from turning unto the Most Sublime Vision, and, beyond them, He with Whom is the
knowledge of all things in the preserved Tablet.180
181
182
183
184
185
186

Whensoever the clouds of tribulation have rained down the darts of afﬂiction in the path of
God, the Lord of all names, I have hastened to meet them, as every fair-minded and discerning
soul shall attest. How many the nights which found the beasts of the ﬁeld resting in their lairs,
and the birds of the air lying in their nests, while this Youth languished in chains and fetters with
none to aid or succour Him!
Call Thou to mind God’s mercy unto Thee; how, when Thou wert imprisoned with a number
of other souls, He delivered Thee and aided Thee with the hosts of the seen and the unseen, until
the King sent Thee to ‘Iráq after We had disclosed unto him that Thou wert not of the sowers of
sedition. Those who follow their corrupt desires and lay aside the fear of God are indeed in
grievous error. They that spread disorder in the land, shed the blood of men, and wrongfully
consume the substance of others—We, verily, are clear of them, and We beseech God not to
associate Us with them, whether in this world or in the world to come, unless they should repent
unto Him. He, verily, is of those who show mercy the most merciful.
Whoso turneth towards God must distinguish himself from others by his every deed, and
follow that which hath been enjoined upon him in the Book. Thus hath it been decreed in a lucid
Tablet. Those, however, who cast behind their backs the commandments of God, and follow the
prompting of their own desires, are, verily, in grievous error.
O King! I adjure thee by thy Lord, the All-Merciful, to look upon thy servants with the glances
of the eye of thy favour, and to treat them with justice, that God may treat thee with mercy.
Potent is thy Lord to do as He pleaseth. The world, with all its abasement and glory, shall pass
away, and the kingdom will remain unto God, the Most Exalted, the All-Knowing.
Say: He hath kindled the lamp of utterance, and feedeth it with the oil of wisdom and
understanding. Too high is thy Lord, the All-Merciful, for aught in the universe to resist His Faith.
He revealeth what He pleaseth through the power of His sovereign might, and protecteth it with
a host of His well-favoured angels. He is supreme over His servants and exerciseth undisputed
dominion over His creation. He, verily, is the All-Knowing, the All-Wise.
O King! I was but a man like others, asleep upon My couch, when lo, the breezes of the All-
Glorious were wafted over Me, and taught Me the knowledge of all that hath been. This thing is
not from Me, but from One Who is Almighty and All-Knowing. And He bade Me lift up My voice
between earth and heaven, and for this there befell Me what hath caused the tears of every man
of understanding to ﬂow. The learning current amongst men I studied not; their schools I entered
not. Ask of the city wherein I dwelt, that thou mayest be well assured that I am not of them who
speak falsely. This is but a leaf which the winds of the will of thy Lord, the Almighty, the All-
Praised, have stirred. Can it be still when the tempestuous winds are blowing? Nay, by Him Who
is the Lord of all Names and Attributes! They move it as they list. The evanescent is as nothing
before Him Who is the Ever-Abiding. His all-compelling summons hath reached Me, and caused
Me to speak His praise amidst all people. I was indeed as one dead when His behest was uttered.
The hand of the will of thy Lord, the Compassionate, the Merciful, transformed Me. Can anyone
speak forth of his own accord that for which all men, both high and low, will protest against him?
Nay, by Him Who taught the Pen the eternal mysteries, save him whom the grace of the
Almighty, the All-Powerful, hath strengthened.
The Pen of the Most High addresseth Me, saying: Fear not. Relate unto His Majesty the Sháh
that which befell thee. His heart, verily, is between the ﬁngers of thy Lord, the God of Mercy, that
haply the sun of justice and bounty may shine forth above the horizon of his heart. Thus hath the
decree been sent down by Him Who is the All-Wise.
Look upon this Youth, O King, with the eyes of justice; judge thou, then, with truth
concerning what hath befallen Him. Of a verity, God hath made thee His shadow amongst men,
and the sign of His power unto all that dwell on earth. Judge thou between Us and them that have
wronged Us without proof and without an enlightening Book. They that surround thee love thee
for their own sakes, whereas this Youth loveth thee for thine own sake, and hath had no desire
except to draw thee nigh unto the seat of grace, and to turn thee toward the right hand of justice.
Thy Lord beareth witness unto that which I declare.187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194

O King! Wert thou to incline thine ear unto the shrill of the Pen of Glory and the cooing of the
Dove of Eternity which, on the branches of the Lote-Tree beyond which there is no passing,
uttereth praises to God, the Maker of all names and Creator of earth and heaven, thou wouldst
attain unto a station from which thou wouldst behold in the world of being naught save the
effulgence of the Adored One, and wouldst regard thy sovereignty as the most contemptible of thy
possessions, abandoning it to whosoever might desire it, and setting thy face toward the Horizon
aglow with the light of His countenance. Neither wouldst thou ever be willing to bear the burden
of dominion save for the purpose of helping thy Lord, the Exalted, the Most High. Then would the
Concourse on high bless thee. O how excellent is this most sublime station, couldst thou ascend
thereunto through the power of a sovereignty recognized as derived from the Name of God!
Amongst the people are those who allege that this Youth hath had no purpose but to
perpetuate His name, whilst others claim that He hath sought for Himself the vanities of the
world—this, notwithstanding that never, throughout all My days, have I found a place of safety, be
it to the extent of a single foothold. At all times have I been immersed in an ocean of tribulations,
whose full measure none can fathom but God. He, truly, is aware of what I say. How many the
days in which My loved ones have been sorely shaken by reason of My afﬂictions, and how many
the nights during which My kindred, fearing for My life, have bitterly wept and lamented! And
this none can deny save them that are bereft of truthfulness. Is it conceivable that He Who
expecteth to lose His life at any moment should seek after worldly vanities? How very strange
the imaginings of those who speak as prompted by their own caprices, and who wander
distractedly in the wilderness of self and passion! Erelong shall they be called upon to account for
their words, and on that day they shall ﬁnd none to befriend or help them.
And amongst the people are those who claim that He hath disbelieved in God—yet every
member of My body testiﬁeth that there is none other God but Him; that those Whom He hath
raised up in truth and sent forth with His guidance are the Manifestations of His most excellent
names, the Revealers of His most exalted attributes, and the Repositories of His Revelation in the
kingdom of creation; that through them the Proof of God hath been perfected unto all else but
Him, the standard of Divine Unity hath been raised, and the sign of sanctity hath been made
manifest; and that through them every soul hath found a path unto the Lord of the Throne on
high. We testify that there is none other God but Him, that from everlasting He was alone with
none else besides Him, and that He shall be unto everlasting what He hath ever been. Too high is
the All-Merciful for the hearts of those who have recognized Him to apprehend His true nature, or
for the minds of men to hope to fathom His essence. He verily is exalted above the understanding
of anyone besides Himself, and sanctiﬁed beyond the comprehension of all else save Him. From all
eternity He hath been independent of the entire creation.
Remember the days in which the Sun of Baṭḥá9 shone forth above the horizon of the Will of
thy Lord, the Exalted, the Most High, and recall how the divines of that age turned away from
Him, and the learned contended with Him, that haply thou mayest apprehend that which, in this
day, remaineth concealed behind the veils of glory. So grievous became His plight on every side
that He instructed His companions to disperse. Thus was the decree sent down from the heaven
of divine glory. Remember, furthermore, how, when one of these same companions came before
the King of Ethiopia and recited unto him a Súrih of the Qur’án, he declared to his attendants:
“This, truly, hath been revealed by One Who is All-Knowing and All-Wise. Whoso acknowledgeth
the truth, and believeth in the teachings of Jesus, can in no wise deny what hath been recited. We,
verily, bear witness to its truth, even as we bear witness to the truth of that which we possess of
the Books of God, the Help in Peril, the Self-Subsisting.”
I swear by God, O King! Wert thou to incline thine ear to the melodies of that Nightingale
which warbleth in manifold accents upon the mystic bough as bidden by thy Lord, the All-
Merciful, thou wouldst cast away thy sovereignty and set thy face towards this Scene of
transcendent glory, this station above whose horizon shineth the Book of the Dawntide,[16] and
wouldst expend all that thou possessest in thine eagerness to obtain the things of God. Then
wouldst thou ﬁnd thyself raised up to the summit of exaltation and glory, and elevated to the
pinnacle of majesty and independence. Thus hath the decree been recorded in the Mother Book by195
196
197
198
199

the Pen of the All-Merciful. Of what avail are the things which are yours today and which
tomorrow others shall possess? Choose for thyself that which God hath chosen for His elect, and
God shall grant thee a mighty sovereignty in His Kingdom. We beseech God to aid thy Majesty to
hearken unto that Word whose radiance hath enveloped the whole world, and to protect thee from
such as have strayed far from the court of His presence.
Glory be to Thee, O Lord My God! How many the heads which were raised aloft on spears in
Thy path, and how many the breasts which were made the target of arrows for the sake of Thy
good pleasure! How many the hearts that have been lacerated for the exaltation of Thy Word and
the promotion of Thy Cause, and how many the eyes that have wept sore for love of Thee! I
implore Thee, O Thou Who art the King of kings and the Pitier of the downtrodden, by Thy Most
Great Name which Thou hast made the Dawning-Place of Thy most excellent names and the
Dayspring of Thy most exalted attributes, to remove the veils that have come in between Thee
and Thy creatures and debarred them from turning unto the horizon of Thy Revelation. Cause
them, then, O My God, by Thy most exalted Word, to turn from the left hand of oblivion and
delusion unto the right hand of knowledge and certitude, that they may know what Thou hast
purposed for them through Thy bounty and grace, and may set their faces towards Him Who is
the Manifestation of Thy Cause and the Revealer of Thy signs.
O My God! Thou art the All-Bountiful, Whose grace is inﬁnite. Withhold not Thy servants
from the most mighty Ocean, which Thou hast made the repository of the pearls of Thy
knowledge and Thy wisdom, and turn them not away from Thy gate, which Thou hast opened
wide before all who are in Thy heaven and all who are on Thy earth. O Lord! Leave them not to
themselves, for they understand not and ﬂee from that which is better for them than all that Thou
hast created upon Thine earth. Cast upon them, O My God, the glances of the eye of Thy favour
and bounty, and deliver them from self and passion, that they may draw nigh unto Thy most
exalted Horizon, taste the sweetness of Thy remembrance, and delight in that bread which Thou
hast sent down from the heaven of Thy Will and the ﬁrmament of Thy grace. From everlasting
Thy bounty hath embraced the entire creation and Thy mercy hath surpassed all things. No God is
there but Thee, the Ever-Forgiving, the Most Compassionate.
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord My God! Thou well knowest that Mine heart hath melted in Thy
Cause, and that My blood so boileth in My veins with the ﬁre of Thy love that every drop of it
proclaimeth with its inner tongue: “Grant that I may be spilt upon the ground for Thy sake, O my
Lord, the Most High, that from it there may spring forth that which Thou hast purposed in Thy
Tablets and hast hidden from the eyes of all, except such servants as have tasted of the crystal
stream of knowledge from the hands of Thy grace and quaffed the soft-ﬂowing waters of
understanding from the cup of Thy bestowal.”
Thou knowest, O My God, that in all Mine affairs I have sought only to obey Thy bidding, that
in Mine every utterance I have wished only to extol Thy praise, and that in whatsoever hath
proceeded from My Pen I have purposed only to win Thy good pleasure and to reveal that which
Thou hast enjoined upon Me through Thy sovereignty.
Thou beholdest Me, O My God, as one bewildered in Thy land. Whensoever I make mention of
that which Thou hast enjoined upon Me, Thy creatures cavil at Me; yet were I to neglect that
which Thou hast bidden Me observe, I would deserve the scourge of Thine anger and would be far
removed from the meadows of Thy nearness. Nay, by Thy glory! I have set My face towards Thy
good pleasure, and turned away from the things whereon Thy servants have set their affections. I
have embraced all that is with Thee, and forsaken all that might lead Me away from the retreats
of Thy nearness and the heights of Thy glory. I swear by Thy might! With Thy love in My heart
nothing can ever alarm Me, and in the path of Thy good pleasure all the world’s afﬂictions can in
no wise dismay Me. All this, however, proceedeth from Thy power and Thy might, from Thy
bounty and Thy grace, and is not of Mine own deserving.
This is an Epistle, O My God, which I have purposed to send unto the King. Thou knowest
that I have wished of him naught but that he should show forth justice to Thy servants and
extend his favours unto the people of Thy kingdom. For Myself I have desired only what Thou
didst desire, and through Thy succour I wish for naught save that which Thou wishest. Perish the200
201
202
203
204
205

soul that seeketh from Thee aught save Thyself! I swear by Thy glory! Thy good pleasure is my
dearest wish, and Thy purpose My highest hope. Have mercy, O My God, upon this poor creature
Who hath clung unto the hem of Thy riches, and this suppliant soul Who calleth upon Thee,
saying, “Thou art, verily, the Lord of might and glory!” Assist Thou, O My God, His Majesty the
Sháh to keep Thy statutes amidst Thy servants and to manifest Thy justice amongst Thy
creatures, that he may treat this people as he treateth others. Thou art, in truth, the God of power,
of glory and wisdom.
By the leave and permission of the King of the Age, this Servant journeyed from the Seat of
Sovereignty10 to ‘Iráq, and dwelt for twelve years in that land. Throughout the entire course of this
period no account of Our condition was submitted to the court of thy presence, and no
representation ever made to foreign powers. Placing Our whole trust in God, We resided in that
land until there came to ‘Iráq a certain ofﬁcial[17] who, upon his arrival, undertook to harass this
poor company of exiles. Day after day, at the instigation of some of the outwardly learned and of
other individuals, he would stir up trouble for these servants, although they had at no time
committed any act detrimental to the state and its people or contrary to the rules and customs of
the citizens of the realm.
Fearing lest the actions of these transgressors should produce some outcome at variance with
thy world-adorning judgement, this Servant despatched a brief account of the matter to Mírzá Sa‘íd
Khán[18] at the Foreign Ministry, so that he might submit it to the royal presence and that
whatever thou shouldst please to decree in this respect might be obeyed. A long while elapsed,
and no decree was issued. Finally matters came to such a pass that there loomed the threat of
imminent strife and bloodshed. Of necessity, therefore, and for the protection of the servants of
God, a few of them appealed to the Governor of ‘Iráq.[19]
Wert thou to observe these events with the eye of fairness, it would become clear and evident
in the luminous mirror of thine heart that what occurred was called for by the circumstances, and
that no other alternative could be seen. His Majesty himself is witness that in whatever city a
number of this people have resided, the hostility of certain functionaries hath enkindled the ﬂame
of conﬂict and contention. This evanescent Soul, however, hath, since His arrival in ‘Iráq, forbidden
all to engage in dissension and strife. The witness of this Servant is His very deeds, for all are well
aware and will testify that, although a greater number of this people resided in ‘Iráq than in any
other land, no one overstepped his limits or transgressed against his neighbour. Fixing their gaze
upon God, and reposing their trust in Him, all have now been abiding in peace for well-nigh
ﬁfteen years, and, in whatever hath befallen them, they have shown forth patience and resigned
themselves to God.
After the arrival of this Servant in this, the city of Adrianople, some of the people of ‘Iráq and
elsewhere inquired about the meaning of the term “rendering assistance unto God” which hath
been mentioned in the Holy Scriptures. Several answers were sent out in reply, one of which is set
forth in these pages, that it may be clearly demonstrated in the court of thy presence that this
Servant hath had no end in view but to promote the betterment and well-being of the world. And
if certain of the divine favours which, undeserving as I may be, God hath pleased to bestow upon
Me be not plain and manifest, this much at least will be clear and apparent, that He, in His
surpassing mercy and inﬁnite grace, hath not deprived Mine heart of the ornament of reason. The
passage that was referred to concerning the meaning of “rendering assistance unto God” is as
follows:
He is God, exalted be His glory!
It is clear and evident that the one true God—gloriﬁed be His mention!—is sanctiﬁed
above the world and all that is therein. By “rendering assistance unto God”, then, it is not
meant that any soul should ﬁght or contend with another. That Sovereign Lord Who doeth
whatsoever He pleaseth hath entrusted the kingdom of creation, its lands and its seas, into
the hands of the kings, for they are, each according to his degree, the manifestations of His
divine power. Should they enter beneath the shadow of the True One, they will be accounted
of God, and if not, thy Lord, verily, knoweth and observeth all things.206
207
208
209
210

That which God—gloriﬁed be His Name!—hath desired for Himself is the hearts of His
servants, which are the treasuries of His love and remembrance and the repositories of His
knowledge and wisdom. It hath ever been the wish of the Eternal King to cleanse the hearts
of His servants from the things of the world and all that pertaineth thereunto, that they may
be made worthy recipients of the effulgent splendours of Him Who is the King of all names
and attributes. Wherefore must no stranger be allowed in the city of the heart, that the
incomparable Friend may enter His abode. By this is meant the effulgence of His names and
attributes, and not His exalted Essence, inasmuch as that peerless King hath ever been, and
shall eternally remain, sanctiﬁed above ascent and descent.
It followeth, therefore, that rendering assistance unto God, in this day, doth not and shall
never consist in contending or disputing with any soul; nay rather, what is preferable in the
sight of God is that the cities of men’s hearts, which are ruled by the hosts of self and
passion, should be subdued by the sword of utterance, of wisdom and of understanding. Thus,
whoso seeketh to assist God must, before all else, conquer, with the sword of inner meaning
and explanation, the city of his own heart and guard it from the remembrance of all save God,
and only then set out to subdue the cities of the hearts of others.
Such is the true meaning of rendering assistance unto God. Sedition hath never been
pleasing unto God, nor were the acts committed in the past by certain foolish ones acceptable
in His sight. Know ye that to be killed in the path of His good pleasure is better for you than
to kill. The beloved of the Lord must, in this day, behave in such wise amidst His servants
that they may by their very deeds and actions guide all men unto the paradise of the All-
Glorious.
By Him Who shineth above the Dayspring of Sanctity! The friends of God have not, nor
will they ever, set their hopes upon the world and its ephemeral possessions. The one true
God hath ever regarded the hearts of men as His own, His exclusive possession—and this too
but as an expression of His all-surpassing mercy, that haply mortal souls may be purged and
sanctiﬁed from all that pertaineth to the world of dust and gain admittance into the realms of
eternity. For otherwise that ideal King is, in Himself and by Himself, sufﬁcient unto Himself
and independent of all things. Neither doth the love of His creatures proﬁt Him, nor can their
malice harm Him. All have issued forth from abodes of dust, and unto dust shall they return,
while the one true God, alone and single, is established upon His Throne, a Throne which is
beyond the reaches of time and space, is sanctiﬁed above all utterance or expression,
intimation, description and deﬁnition, and is exalted beyond all notion of abasement and glory.
And none knoweth this save Him and those with whom is the knowledge of the Book. No
God is there but Him, the Almighty, the All-Bountiful.
It behoveth the benevolence of the Sovereign, however, to examine all matters with the eye of
justice and mercy, and not to content himself with the baseless claims of certain individuals. We
beseech God to graciously assist the King to fulﬁl that which He pleaseth, and, verily, that which
He desireth should be the desire of all the worlds.
Later this Servant was summoned to Constantinople, whither We arrived accompanied by a
poor band of exiles. At no time thereafter did We seek to meet with anyone, as We had no request
to make and no aim in view but to demonstrate unto all that this Servant had no mischief in mind
and had never associated with the sowers of sedition. By Him Who hath caused the tongues of all
beings to speak forth His praise! While certain considerations rendered it difﬁcult to make
application to any quarter, such steps were perforce taken to protect certain souls. My Lord, verily,
knoweth what is in Me, and He beareth witness unto the truth of what I say.
A just king is the shadow of God on earth. All should seek shelter under the shadow of his
justice, and rest in the shade of his favour. This is not a matter which is either speciﬁc or limited
in its scope, that it might be restricted to one or another person, inasmuch as the shadow telleth of
the One Who casteth it. God, gloriﬁed be His remembrance, hath called Himself the Lord of the
worlds, for He hath nurtured and still nurtureth everyone. Gloriﬁed be, then, His grace that hath
preceded all created things, and His mercy that hath surpassed the worlds.211
212
213
214
215
216
217

It is clear and evident that, whether this Cause be seen as right or wrong by the people, those
who are associated with its name have accepted and embraced it as true, and have forsaken their
all in their eagerness to partake of the things of God. That they should evince such renunciation
in the path of the love of the All-Merciful is in itself a faithful witness and an eloquent testimony
to the truth of their convictions. Hath it ever been witnessed that a man of sound judgement
should sacriﬁce his life without cause or reason? And if it be suggested that this people have
taken leave of their senses, this too is highly improbable, inasmuch as such behaviour hath not
been conﬁned to merely a soul or two—nay, a vast multitude of every class have drunk their ﬁll of
the living waters of divine knowledge, and, intoxicated, have hastened with heart and soul to the
ﬁeld of sacriﬁce in the way of the Beloved.
If these souls, who have renounced all else but God for His sake and offered up their life and
substance in His path, are to be accounted as false, then by what proof and testimony can the
truth of what others assert be established in thy presence? The late Ḥájí Siyyid Muḥammad[20]—
may God exalt his station and immerse him in the ocean of His forgiveness and mercy!—was one
of the most learned divines of his age, and one of the most devout and pious men of his time. So
highly was he regarded that his praise was on every tongue, and his righteousness and piety were
universally acknowledged. Yet, when hostilities broke out with Russia,[21] he who himself had
pronounced the decree of holy war, and who with blazoned standard had left his native land to
rally to the support of his faith, abandoned, after the inconvenience of a brief encounter, all the
good that he had purposed, and returned whence he had come. Would that the veil might be lifted,
and that which hath ere now remained hidden from the eyes of men be made manifest!
For more than twenty years this people have, day and night, been subjected to the fury of the
Sovereign’s wrath, and have been scattered by the tempestuous gales of his displeasure, each to a
different land. How many the children who have been left fatherless, and how many the fathers
who have lost their sons! How many the mothers who have dared not, out of fear and dread, to
mourn their slaughtered offspring! How numerous those who, at eventide, were possessed of
utmost wealth and afﬂuence, and who, when morning came, had fallen into utter abasement and
destitution! No land is there whose soil hath not been tinged with their blood, nor reach of heaven
unto which their sighs have not ascended. Throughout the years the darts of afﬂiction have
unceasingly rained down from the clouds of God’s decree, yet despite all these calamities and
tribulations, the ﬂame of divine love hath so blazed in their hearts that even should their bodies be
torn asunder they would not forsake their love of Him Who is the Best-Beloved of the worlds, but
would welcome with heart and soul whatever might befall them in the path of God.
O King! The breezes of the grace of the All-Merciful have transformed these servants and
attracted them unto His Holy Court. “The witness of a true lover is upon his sleeve.” Nevertheless,
some of the outwardly learned have troubled the luminous heart of the King of the Age
concerning these souls who revolve round the Tabernacle of the All-Merciful and who seek to
attain the Sanctuary of true knowledge. Would that the world-adorning wish of His Majesty might
decree that this Servant be brought face to face with the divines of the age, and produce proofs
and testimonies in the presence of His Majesty the Sháh! This Servant is ready, and taketh hope
in God, that such a gathering may be convened in order that the truth of the matter may be made
clear and manifest before His Majesty the Sháh. It is then for thee to command, and I stand ready
before the throne of thy sovereignty. Decide, then, for Me or against Me.
The All-Merciful saith in the Qur’án, His abiding testimony unto all the peoples of the world:
“Wish ye then for death, if ye be men of truth.”[22] Behold how He hath declared the yearning for
death to be the touchstone of sincerity! And, in the luminous mirror of thy judgement, it is
doubtless clear and evident which people have chosen, in this day, to lay down their lives in the
path of the Beloved of the worlds. Indeed, were the books supporting the beliefs of this people to
be written with the blood spilled in the path of God—exalted be His glory!—then countless
volumes would have already appeared amongst men for all to see.
How, We fain would ask, is it possible to impugn this people whose deeds are in conformity
with their words, and to give credence instead to those who have refused to relinquish one jot of
their worldly authority in the path of Him Who is the Unconstrained? Some of the divines who218
219
220
221
222
223

have declared this Servant an inﬁdel have at no time met with Me. Never having seen Me, or
become acquainted with My purpose, they have nevertheless spoken as they pleased and acted as
they desired. Yet every claim requireth a proof, not mere words and displays of outward piety.
In this connection the text of several passages from the Hidden Book of Fáṭimih—the
blessings of God be upon her!—which are relevant to the present theme will be cited in the
Persian tongue, that certain matters which have ere now been hidden may be revealed before thy
presence. The people addressed in the aforementioned Book, which is today known as the Hidden
Words, are those who, though outwardly known for learning and piety, are inwardly the slaves of
self and passion.
He saith: O ye that are foolish, yet have a name to be wise! Wherefore do ye wear the guise
of the shepherd, when inwardly ye have become wolves, intent upon My ﬂock? Ye are even as the
star, which riseth ere the dawn, and which, though it seem radiant and luminous, leadeth the
wayfarers of My city astray into the paths of perdition.
And likewise He saith: O ye seeming fair yet inwardly foul! Ye are like clear but bitter water,
which to outward seeming is crystal pure but of which, when tested by the Divine Assayer, not a
drop is accepted. Yea, the sunbeam falls alike upon the dust and the mirror, yet differ they in
reﬂection even as doth the star from the earth: nay, immeasurable is the difference!
And also He saith: O essence of desire! At many a dawn have I turned from the realms of the
Placeless unto thine abode, and found thee on the bed of ease busied with others than Myself.
Thereupon, even as the ﬂash of the spirit, I returned to the realms of celestial glory, and breathed
it not in My retreats above unto the hosts of holiness.
And again He saith: O bondslave of the world! Many a dawn hath the breeze of My loving-
kindness wafted over thee and found thee upon the bed of heedlessness fast asleep. Bewailing
then thy plight it returned whence it came.[23]
Therefore, in the exercise of the royal justice, it is not sufﬁcient to give ear to the claimant
alone. God saith in the Qur’án, the unerring Balance that distinguisheth truth from falsehood: “O
ye who believe! If a wicked man come to you with news, clear it up at once, lest through
ignorance ye harm others, and afterward repent of what ye have done.”[24] The holy Traditions,
moreover, contain the admonition: “Believe not the tale-bearer.” Certain of the divines, who have
never seen Us, have misconceived the nature of Our Cause. Those, however, who have met Us will
testify that this Servant hath not spoken save in accordance with that which God hath
commanded in the Book, and that He hath called attention to the following blessed verse—exalted
be His Word: “Do ye not disavow us only because we believe in God and in what He hath sent
down unto us, and in what He had sent down aforetime?”[25]
O King of the age! The eyes of these refugees are turned towards and ﬁxed upon the mercy of
the Most Merciful. No doubt is there whatever that these tribulations will be followed by the
outpourings of a supreme mercy, and these dire adversities will be succeeded by an overﬂowing
prosperity. We fain would hope, however, that His Majesty the Sháh will himself examine these
matters and bring hope to the hearts. That which We have submitted to thy Majesty is indeed for
thine highest good. And God, verily, is a sufﬁcient witness unto Me.
Gloriﬁed art Thou, O Lord My God! I bear witness that the heart of the King is in truth
between the ﬁngers of Thy might. If it be Thy wish, do Thou incline it, O My God, in the direction
of charity and mercy. Thou, verily, art the Almighty, the Most Exalted, the Most Bountiful. No God
is there besides Thee, the All-Glorious, the One Whose help is sought by all.
Concerning the prerequisites of the learned, He saith: “Whoso among the learned guardeth his
self, defendeth his faith, opposeth his desires, and obeyeth his Lord’s command, it is incumbent
upon the generality of the people to pattern themselves after him.…”[26] Should the King of the
Age reﬂect upon this utterance which hath streamed from the tongue of Him Who is the
Dayspring of the Revelation of the All-Merciful, he would perceive that those who have been
adorned with the attributes enumerated in this holy Tradition are scarcer than the philosopher’s
stone; wherefore not every man that layeth claim to knowledge deserveth to be believed.
Again concerning the divines of the Latter Days, He saith: “The religious doctors of that age
shall be the most wicked of the divines beneath the shadow of heaven. Out of them hath mischief224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233